Senior policy advisors, press policy
Department for Culture, Media and Sport

Apply before 11:55 pm on Sunday 17th August 2025

 
Return to search resultsDepartment for Culture, Media and Sport Logo
Details
Reference number
419354
Salary
£34,584 - £38,044
A Civil Service Pension with an employer contribution of 28.97%
Job grade
Higher Executive Officer
Contract type
Fixed term
Loan
Secondment
Length of employment
2 Years
Business area
DCMS - Media & International
Type of role
Policy
Working pattern
Flexible working, Full-time, Job share
Number of jobs available
2
Contents
Location
About the job
Benefits
Things you need to know
Apply and further information
Location
Manchester, North West England, M2 3AW
About the job
Job summary
The roles sit within the Radio, Advertising and Press (RAP) team which is part of the Media and International Directorate (MINT) at DCMS. MINT supports a thriving media environment that drives growth and fosters social cohesion, while also promoting DCMS sectors and interests globally. 

As part of that, RAP work is focused on supporting a free media underpinned by high-quality journalism and a diverse and sustainable press sector, that helps democracy and communities to thrive and protects the integrity of the UK information environment.

RAP is a friendly, supportive and policy-focused team, leading on a wide variety of interesting issues, including the UK’s media ownership regime, trust, transparency and accountability in the online advertising market, the future of the radio and audio industries, and the safety of journalists facing abuse and harassment. These roles are focused on the financial sustainability of public interest journalism, and in particular work to support local journalism through a Local Media Strategy.

Job description
These are varied, fascinating and fast-paced roles currently focused on the Local Media Strategy, a ministerial priority. The financial sustainability of public interest journalism, particularly at local level, is a major concern, with repercussions for democracy, public trust and social cohesion. With this in mind, the Local Media Strategy is intended to help secure the long term future of local journalism.

Postholders would play a key role driving this work forward, and may also be engaged in wider work, including on the interaction between AI and copyright, the Competition and Markets Authority’s implementation of digital competition legislation and the next BBC Charter Review.

Postholders will help develop and deliver policy in the Strategy, with opportunity to lead on discreet workstrands and on overall project management of the Strategy. They will engage with a variety of stakeholders from other parts of Government, news publishers and broadcasters, tech firms and local authorities. They will help draft policy papers, advice, briefings, correspondence and answers to parliamentary questions for ministers. And they will monitor developments and trends to help anticipate emerging challenges to wider press sustainability.

Person specification
The ideal candidate will have the following key skills and experience: 

Essential criteria: 

Written and oral communication skills, including the ability to succinctly explain complex issues to a diverse range of stakeholders.
A proven ability to identify, analyse and assess evidence from a range of different sources to inform effective decision-making.
A team player, able to build and maintain strong relationships with colleagues and other stakeholders with potentially contrasting priorities, to influence and deliver shared goals. 
Highly organised and able to deliver across multiple priorities and respond when required to time-sensitive deadlines.
Desirable criteria: 

Interest and/or experience in the media, journalism and the UK’s information ecosystem
We are running an information session where prospective applicants can find out more about the role. This will be hosted by the vacancy holder, and will take place on:

Tuesday 12th August from 3-3.45pm
The session will be an opportunity to hear more about the role, the team and wider directorate and the department. It will also be an opportunity for you to ask any questions.

Please register your interest by filling out this Registration form by Monday 11th August at 5pm and you will be sent an invitation. 

Please note that the session will not be recorded and will not focus on the DCMS recruitment process - please direct any queries that you have on this topic (timelines, reasonable adjustments, onboarding etc) to recruitment.team@dcms.gov.uk

Behaviours
We'll assess you against these behaviours during the selection process:

Communicating and Influencing
Working Together
Delivering at Pace
Benefits
Alongside your salary of £34,584, Department for Culture, Media and Sport contributes £10,018 towards you being a member of the Civil Service Defined Benefit Pension scheme. Find out what benefits a Civil Service Pension provides.
DCMS values its staff and offers a wide range of benefits to everyone who works here. We’re committed to developing talent, and supporting colleagues to have great careers in our department. To support with that, some of the benefits we offer include:

Flexible working arrangements and hybrid working - DCMS staff work on a flexible basis with time spent in offices, and time spent working from home

26.5 days annual leave on entry, increasing to 31.5 days after 5 years’ service

A Civil Service pension with an employer contribution of 28.97%

Access to the Edenred employee benefits system which offers discounts to popular retailers and access to various useful resources such as financial and savings advice

3 days of paid volunteering leave

Up to 9 months maternity leave on full pay + generous paternity and adoption leave

Staff reward and recognition bonuses that operate throughout the year

Occupational sick pay

Access to the Employee Assistance Programme which offers staff 24/7 confidential support and resources such as counselling, debt guidance and management advice

Active and engaged staff networks to join including the LGBT+, Ethnic Diversity, Mental Health and Wellbeing and Gender Equality Networks

Exceptional learning and development opportunities that you can explore alongside your day to day work

Season ticket loan, cycle to work scheme and much more!

Terms and conditions at SCS grades will vary. Those applying for SCS roles should refer to the candidate information pack for more information on terms and conditions.

Things you need to know
Selection process details
This vacancy is using Success Profiles (opens in a new window), and will assess your Behaviours, Strengths and Experience.
To apply for this vacancy, you will need to submit the following documents which will assessed against the experience success profile: 

A CV setting out your career history, with key responsibilities and achievements. Please ensure you provide employment history that relates to the essential and desirable criteria, and that any gaps in employment history within the last 2 years are explained. The CV should not exceed more than 2 x A4 pages and you should insert your CV into the "Job History" section on the Civil Service Jobs application form.
A Statement of Suitability (max 750 words) explaining how you consider your personal skills, qualities and experience provide evidence of your suitability for the role in reference to the essential requirements highlighted. You may also choose to reference the desirable skills listed however these will not be considered in the assessment of your application except in circumstances where there are a high number and calibre of candidates. 
For the shortlist, we will select applicants demonstrating the best fit for the role by considering the evidence provided in your application.

In the event of a large number of applicants, an initial sift will be conducted on the Statement of Suitability. Those who are successful in the initial sift will then be scored on all elements of the application.

For support in writing your application and interviewing, please refer to the ‘Application and Interview Guidance’ document attached to the job advert.

The interview process will assess behaviours and strengths.

The behaviours to be tested at interview are:

Communicating and Influencing
Working Together
Delivering at Pace
You will not be made aware of the strengths being assessed prior to your interview. 

You may also be required to prepare a presentation. Full details of this, including the topic, length of time, and whether or not you will need to use visual aids, will be sent to you prior to your interview.

Your interview will take place remotely via GoogleMeets.

Further Information

If the vacancy is offered as FTA/Loan, existing Civil Servants must join on a Loan basis only. Prior agreement to be released on loan must be obtained before commencing the application process. In the case of Civil Servants, the terms of the loan will be agreed between the home and host department and the Civil Servant. This includes grade on return.

A reserve list may be held for a period of 12 months from which further appointments can be made.

Any move to Department for Culture, Media and Sport from another employer will mean you can no longer access childcare vouchers. This includes moves between government departments. You may however be eligible for other government schemes, including Tax Free Childcare. Determine your eligibility at https://www.childcarechoices.gov.uk   

New entrants are expected to join on the minimum of the pay band.

DCMS has a London and a National pay scale. For more information on this, including the circumstances in which each pay scale will apply, please see the ‘Candidate Information Pack’ attached.

If successful and transferring from another Government Department a criminal record check may be carried out. 

In order to process applications without delay, we will be sending a Criminal Record Check to Disclosure and Barring Service on your behalf. However, we recognise in exceptional circumstances 

some candidates will want to send their completed forms direct. If you will be doing this, please advise Government Recruitment Service of your intention by emailing Pre-EmploymentChecks.grs@cabinetoffice.gov.uk stating the job reference number in the subject heading. 

Applicants who are successful at interview will be, as part of pre-employment screening, subject to a check on the Internal Fraud Database (IFD). This check will provide information about employees who have been dismissed for fraud or dishonesty offences. This check also applies to employees who resign or otherwise leave before being dismissed for fraud or dishonesty had their employment continued. Any applicant’s details held on the IFD will be refused employment. 

A candidate is not eligible to apply for a role within the Civil Service if the application is made within a 5-year period following a dismissal for carrying out internal fraud against government.

Please be aware the levels of national security clearance are changing which may impact on the level needed for this role by the time of appointment. All efforts will be made to keep candidates informed of any changes and what that will mean in terms of vetting criteria. For more information please See our vetting charter

For further information on National Security Vetting please visit the following page https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/demystifying-vetting

Reasonable Adjustment

We are committed to supporting candidates so they can perform at their best throughout the recruitment process. This includes making reasonable adjustments to our process.

In order to request an adjustment, please:

Complete the ‘Assistance required’ section on the ‘Additional requirements’ page of your application form to tell us what changes or help you might need further on in the recruitment process. For instance, you may need wheelchair access at interview, or a verbal test rather than a written one. 

Alternatively, contact the Government Recruitment Service via dcmsrecruitment.grs@cabinetoffice.gov.uk as soon as possible before the closing date to discuss your needs.

Accessibility

If you are experiencing accessibility difficulties with any of the attachments, please contact us. Contact details can be found in the 'contact point for applicants' section of the job advert.

Feedback



Feedback will only be provided if you attend an interview or assessment.
Security
Successful candidates must undergo a criminal record check.
Successful candidates must meet the security requirements before they can be appointed. The level of security needed is counter-terrorist check (opens in a new window).

See our vetting charter (opens in a new window).
People working with government assets must complete baseline personnel security standard (opens in new window) checks.
Nationality requirements
This job is broadly open to the following groups:

UK nationals
nationals of the Republic of Ireland
nationals of Commonwealth countries who have the right to work in the UK
nationals of the EU, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein and family members of those nationalities with settled or pre-settled status under the European Union Settlement Scheme (EUSS) (opens in a new window)
nationals of the EU, Switzerland, Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein and family members of those nationalities who have made a valid application for settled or pre-settled status under the European Union Settlement Scheme (EUSS)
individuals with limited leave to remain or indefinite leave to remain who were eligible to apply for EUSS on or before 31 December 2020
Turkish nationals, and certain family members of Turkish nationals, who have accrued the right to work in the Civil Service
Further information on nationality requirements (opens in a new window)
Working for the Civil Service
The Civil Service Code (opens in a new window) sets out the standards of behaviour expected of civil servants.

We recruit by merit on the basis of fair and open competition, as outlined in the Civil Service Commission's recruitment principles (opens in a new window).
The Civil Service embraces diversity and promotes equal opportunities. As such, we run a Disability Confident Scheme (DCS) for candidates with disabilities who meet the minimum selection criteria.
The Civil Service also offers a Redeployment Interview Scheme to civil servants who are at risk of redundancy, and who meet the minimum requirements for the advertised vacancy.
Diversity and Inclusion
The Civil Service is committed to attract, retain and invest in talent wherever it is found. To learn more please see the Civil Service People Plan (opens in a new window) and the Civil Service Diversity and Inclusion Strategy (opens in a new window).
Apply and further information
This vacancy is part of the Great Place to Work for Veterans (opens in a new window) initiative.
The Civil Service welcomes applications from people who have recently left prison or have an unspent conviction. Read more about prison leaver recruitment (opens in new window).
Once this job has closed, the job advert will no longer be available. You may want to save a copy for your records.
Contact point for applicants
Job contact :
Name :Ed Little
Email :ed.little@dcms.gov.uk
Recruitment team
Email :dcmsrecruitment.grs@cabinetoffice.gov.uk
Further information
The law requires that selection for appointment to the Civil Service is on merit on the basis of fair and open competition as outlined in the Civil Service Commission's Recruitment Principles.
If you feel your application has not been treated in accordance with the Recruitment Principles, and you wish to make a complaint, you should contact recruitment.team@dcms.gov.uk in the first instance. If you are not satisfied with the response you receive from the Department, you can contact the Civil Service Commission at: https://civilservicecommission.independent.gov.uk/recruitment/civilservicerecruitmentcomplaints/