Job Specification
Research Fellowships - AI for Life
Artificial Intelligence
101253
Grade 8 £47,389 - £59,966 pa Grade 9 £61,759 - £75,917 pa
01-Dec-2025 23:30
University of Liverpool Research Fellowships: Revolutionising Research innovation
 
Shape the Future of AI Research. Become a University of Liverpool Research Fellow.
 
As we approach our 150th anniversary in 2031, the University of Liverpool is proud to launch the second cohort of our prestigious Research Fellowship programme, a cornerstone of our Strategy 2031 vision.
 
We are seeking Research Fellows with an original and compelling vision for harnessing the power of Artificial Intelligence for research. If you are ready to deliver world-class transformative research and grow into a knowledge leader of tomorrow, we want to hear from you.
 
We invite proposals that apply AI to one of our five Research Frontier focus areas:
 
For information on each of the below Frontiers, please visit: https://www.liverpool.ac.uk/research/fellowships/
 
This vacancy is for AI for Life only.  Please only apply for one Frontier. 
Host Departments listed on the e-recruitment site are purely indicative to aid internal handling of applications. Successful candidates will be placed in the most appropriate University Department for their discipline.
AI for Life
Infection Resilience
Materials Discovery
Particle Physics
Therapeutics Innovation
Whether you are from academia or a research-intensive industry setting, we welcome diverse career journeys with an understanding of the ethical, inclusive and societal dimensions of AI. A PhD in a relevant discipline is essential.
The University of Liverpool Research Fellowship Scheme will provide you with all the support you need to deliver impact that matters.
 
With our world-leading facilities and expertise we provide the platform for pioneering discoveries and partnerships. Our tenure-track fellowships will develop future research leaders in a vibrant, inclusive and collaborative environment.
 
Do you have the potential to shape the future of AI research and become an inclusive, responsible and collaborative leader? This is an exciting opportunity to develop your AI research portfolio in a world-class University, and progress to permanent tenure by the end of the Fellowship, subject to meeting performance requirements.
 
There are three separate documents which will form your application to our Research Fellowship Scheme:
 
- An application form
- A CV
- An outline Research Proposal (please use the template provided with the job description)
 
More information on our focus areas for each Frontier and application guidance at: https://www.liverpool.ac.uk/research/fellowships/
Click on the link below to view the full Job Description	
CV Guidance Research Fellowships
Outline Research Proposal
AI for Life - Job description




AI for life
AI for life
AI for life brings different fields together to advance AI technologies and their applications. Our researchers develop solutions to address major societal challenges: improving health and social care, closing educational gaps, and promoting economic growth.

We collaborate across computer science, engineering, health, social sciences, and humanities, ensuring our AI innovations serve human needs. Prioritising explainability, transparency, and community involvement allows us to keep human values at the centre of technological advancement.

Eligibility
Candidates will be expected to have a PhD in a discipline relating to their fellowship proposal, and at least three years of postdoctoral experience in an academic, research and development (R&D) or policy environment.

Candidates must apply against one of our defined frontier focus areas listed below and clearly articulate their vision in their outline research proposal. Please do not apply for more than one focus area.

N.B. Host departments listed in each frontier focus area are purely indicative to aid the internal handling of applications. Successful candidates will be placed in the most appropriate University department for their discipline.

Frontier focus areas
Public health AI: Multi-agent engineering of preventive health systems
Host institute: Population Health
Host department: Public Health, Policy and Systems.
Fellowship in this research area will focus on pioneering new public health AI research and advance the shifts toward prevention, community-based care and public-facing digital health systems.

In particular, the research should investigate widening inequalities in the fast-emerging AI economy, working with Liverpool’s Civic Data Cooperative and with multiple organisations who share data and digital workflows, including, NHS, social care, charity and voluntary sector organisations and residents directly.

AI for a sustainable and equitable planet
Host school: Environmental Sciences
Host department: Earth, Ocean and Ecological Sciences / Geography and Planning.
Fellowship in this research area will develop AI approaches that address environmental challenges through a social justice lens, recognising that climate impacts disproportionately affect marginalised communities. This fellow will advance machine learning applications for understanding and supporting community adaptation, resource distribution and participatory environmental governance.

In particular, the Fellow will develop predictive models for climate-induced displacement, using satellite imagery, social media data, and demographic information to anticipate migration patterns and community needs. The research may also prioritise co-design with affected communities, ensuring AI tools serve grassroots environmental movements.

AI foundations for next-generation models supporting society
Host school: Computer Science and Informatics
Host department: Artificial Intelligence subject group.
Fellowship in this research area will focus on the development of fundamental AI techniques that will contribute to advancing the field and enable applications that support societal needs. We are agnostic about the specific AI approaches that the Fellow has expertise in, but their research plans should focus on known challenges to be tackled in order to advance technical capabilities of AI to be deployed in real world scenarios.

In particular, the Fellow will set out a programme of activity for advancing their research in alignment with principles of developing ethical, trustworthy outputs that serve to advance human potential and should demonstrate how their fundamental research contributions can be taken forward into applications, working on interdisciplinary collaborations and with non-academic partners.

AI systems and structural inequality
Host school: The Arts
Host department: Communication and Media.
Fellowship in this area will develop a programme of work examining how AI systems can challenge or perpetuate structural social inequalities in digital societies. Research will combine computational social science with critical humanities perspectives to address the impact of AI in one or more areas of welfare, employment, education, media, or justice.

It will address the intersection of digital and AI divides with race, class, and disability; and may consider participatory methods for democratising AI development. Methodological innovation may include blending quantitative, ethnographic, and algorithmic methods to create tools that democratise access to or the design of AI for affected communities.

The Fellow will collaborate with a set of civil society organisations, trade unions, and digital rights groups who already partner with the University.

How to apply
Click here to apply for this fellowship via our e-recruitment site.

Please ensure that you read the application guidance here.