About The Role
Your Skills, Their Success, Supporting the Community's Future - Join us as a Lecturer of Media
 
As a Lecturer of Media at the Department of Music, Media & Performing Arts at EKC Canterbury College you will teach, train and assess students in a variety of learning environments, ensuring a high-quality learning experience. Your role will also include providing support to learners to enable them to achieve their maximum potential and to lead as appropriate on designated study programmes and/or courses, with a key responsibility for ensuring the design, delivery and evaluation of programme.
 
We pride ourselves in the support we can give those who are new to teaching, with ongoing training and coaching through our Teacher Academy which includes digital skills support. So, if you do not have any teaching experience or teacher qualifications but have a passion for sharing your knowledge and would like to be considered for this teaching role please apply.
 
Alongside our priority of excellent student experience, we also focus on our employees. Here are just some of our benefits when working for the East Kent Colleges Group:
Generous and Consistent Holiday Pattern- aligned with our academic calendar
Teacher Training- we support new teachers with a £7000 investment in your training and coaching through our in-house Teaching Academy
Flexible Personal Leave- Time off for your child's first day at nursery, school or college, moving homes and for interviews
Exclusive Discounts & Perks- Inc. restaurant, grocery, retail and holidays discounts as well as car leasing and tech purchasing schemes, on-site nursery
Wellbeing and Health Support- Generous sick pay, counselling services, discounted gym membership at Canterbury College, free eye tests and glasses vouchers, flexible support for medical appointments and return-to-work transitions
Competitive Pension Scheme- 28% company contribution
Culture and Recognition- Being part of Community Days, an Annual Staff Celebration Day, and an eco-friendly organisation dedicated to reaching net-zero by 2030

About You
You will be highly organised, creative and be able to plan and teach engaging and innovative lessons with demonstrated interpersonal skills. Assessing and tracking student progress, to further plan intervention this will be a vital part of the role and ensuring all students develop the skills they need to succeed. 

Ideally you will have experience of teaching or have delivered training in the workplace although this isn't essential as training will be offered to the successful applicant. You must have a positive outlook, be empathetic towards learners and have strong class management skills.  

We require knowledge and specialism in film, TV, radio, media research and media studies.  The media department has a local and national reputation for excellence due to the outstanding quality of our teaching and support, resulting in high levels of student aspiration and achievement. 

You will be able to teach a range of designated study programs and/ or courses from Level 1 up to Level 3 and will be able to motivate learners to achieve and succeed on their programmes of study.  

Please contact the Resourcing Team at jobs@ekcgroup.ac.uk if you have any queries about this position.
 
Please note that there are two salary scale points for our Lecturer positions. All candidates will start at the introductory salary scale point unless certain criteria are met. Employees can move up the salary scale once one full academic year of teaching for our group is complete, subject to approval. Therefore, internal applicants may qualify for the higher salary scale, although should seek clarification.
About Us
Outstanding Ofsted Provider

East Kent Colleges Group is an Ofsted Outstanding rated provider. It is proud to be the first General Further Education college organisation in the country to have received the Outstanding grade against each of the strands under the new Ofsted inspection framework. An inclusive provider, our colleagues place our students and the communities we serve at the heart of everything they do across EKC Group and this is illustrated in our ‘Strong’ skills grading by Ofsted.

Commitment to Safeguarding

We are committed to safeguarding and promoting the welfare of children and vulnerable adults and we ensure that all staff are aware of their responsibilities for upholding these principles.

As a designated establishment, we are exempt from the Rehabilitation of Offenders Act 1974 and therefore have an obligation to carry out checks to ensure that staff are suitable to work with children and vulnerable adults. These checks include conviction/caution self-declaration, Enhanced DBS check and obtaining sufficient referencing.

It is a criminal offence to apply for a post which involves engaging in regulated activity relevant to children if you are barred from doing so.

If you are successful in being shortlisted to interview, your suitability to work with children and vulnerable adults will be explored as part of the interview process.

Commitment to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

East Kent Colleges Group is an equal opportunities employer and welcomes applications from all members of our communities. We are particularly keen to increase the diversity of our staff body and encourage applications from candidates where there is underrepresentation in our workforce.

We are proud to hold the Positive About Disability Award and are a Disability Confident Employer. This confirms our commitment to interviewing all applicants who declare that they have a disability and who meet the essential criteria outlined in the person specification. With any successful candidate, we will explore any reasonable adjustments to a role due to a health needs or disability.

Similarly, we have a commitment to Care Leavers (Care Covenant Pledge) and to current or previous Armed Forces personnel (Armed Forces Covenant Pledge) with a commitment to interview applicants who meet the positions essential criteria and who have declared this on their application. 

We welcome applications from anyone wishing to work flexibly and those considering a return to work from a career break.

We do not engage with agencies for permanent staff and have an in-house recruitment team.