Candidate Charter Our charter outlines what candidates can expect when applying for roles with the East Kent Colleges Group. It is our promise to candidates to provide an excellent candidate journey, from applying for a role, through to your first day of work. For guidance of how to complete an application, please see our Application Guidance document seen on our career’s website. Fair Recruitment l We’re committed in assessing applications fairly. l All our vacancies above 1 day per week should be displayed on our internal or external websites. l Your data will be kept safe and in line with our data protection policy. l Our process is free of bias and protected characteristics don’t play a part of our recruitment decisions. l Our assessment panels will be identical for all candidates within the same vacancy. l Our set interview questions will be identical for all candidates within the same vacancy, although may include follow up questions depending on your answers. l With interviews for teaching positions, we ensure a micro-teach assessment is part of the process. l Our interview questions are based from points within the job specification. l Shortlisting will aim to commence within a few days of a vacancy closing and all candidates will be informed of an outcome. l Interviews will aim to occur between 7-10 days after the vacancy advert closing date, and the date will be shared on the vacancy.Development and Innovation l We welcome feedback from our applicants, and all candidates have opportunities to complete feedback forms at various stages of our recruitment process. l Our Resourcing Team will continue to review our processes with the aim to maintain a fair and inclusive practice. l Our Resourcing Team will continue to ensure they keep up to date of current trends, best practices, and with any education sector changes. l We’re committed to home grown teachers, specialists and experts in a variety of f ields. Through our teaching academy we’ll continue to train teachers for the future. We will continue to hire lecturers who are not qualified teachers, and train them alongside their work, offering equal pay. Equality, Diversity and Inclusion l All our vacancies will advertise pay, annual leave and hours per week. l We have a harmonised pay structure which means that identical roles throughout our group are paid equally. l We are an equal opportunities employer and welcome applications from all members of our community. We are particularly keen to increase the diversity of our staff body and encourage applications from candidates where there is underrepresentation in our workforce. l We will consider reasonable adjustment requests for interviews and support where possible. See Applicant Guidance (LINK) for more information on reasonable adjustments. l We will endeavour to increase the diversity of our interview panels. l We are committed to being a Real Living Wage employer. Collaboration l We work with candidates to support applications and ensure they have knowledge about the opportunities available. l We treat candidates and colleagues with respect. l We operate as impartial members of the hiring process. l If we don’t have a suitable position for you right now, we have a job alerts function on our careers website so you can receive instant notifications of more suitable opportunities. l We’ll work with organisations within the community such as DWP, Shaw Trust, Forward Trust and others to support with finding those who are unemployed suitable work. l We offer a guaranteed interview scheme, and part of this is supporting companies in our communities who are going through large scale redundancies.