DISPATCH FROM THE REPUBLIC
We Are Hiring Researchers
The Republic
February 20, 2026
The Republic is looking for detail-oriented and intellectually curious researchers based in Lagos and environs to support our work. Successful candidates will conduct rigorous research and interviews across topics in Nigerian history.
The Republic is looking for detail-oriented and intellectually curious researchers based in Lagos, Nigeria, and environs to support our work. Successful candidates will conduct rigorous research and interviews across topics in Nigerian history. This part-time, remote role requires strong writing skills and a deep familiarity with secondary, archival and media sources relevant to Nigeria. Researchers will also conduct in-person and virtual interviews.

About The Republic

The Republic is a Nigerian publication committed to rigorous, reflective and forward-looking journalism about Nigeria and wider African diaspora. We publish deeply reported stories and analysis on politics, business, culture, international affairs, and the ideas shaping Nigeria and the African diaspora.



KEY RESPONSIBILITIES
⎈ Conduct in-depth research across assigned focus area, particularly on Nigeria’s socio-economic and political history.

⎈ Conduct physical and virtual interviews

⎈ Compile, synthesize and clearly present research findings for use.

⎈ Draft interview guides and well-structured interview questions.

⎈ Prepare and organize interview transcripts.

⎈ Verify facts, dates, quotations and contextual references to ensure accuracy and credibility.

⎈ Identify and share relevant secondary literature, archival and media materials.

⎈ Copy-editing transcripts and other research materials.

REQUIREMENTS
⎈ Doctoral student/researcher in history, political science and other related fields or proven experience as a researcher in journalism or a research/think-tank environment.

⎈ Excellent written and verbal communication skills.

⎈ Demonstrated interest in Nigerian history, politics, culture and society.

⎈ Ability to work with archival materials, literary texts and media sources.

⎈ Experience drafting interview guides and conducting interviews (preferred).

⎈ Strong attention to detail and comfort working to deadlines.

⎈ Ability to work remotely and collaborate with a distributed editorial team.

⎈ Preferably based in Lagos.


This is a two-month remote role (except for scheduled in-person interviews). Successful candidates will be paid ₦400,000 per month for the project duration.

Deadline: Friday, 27 February 2026

Apply Below:




////
