UNDERSTANDING
FRAMING THEORY
Olasunkanmi AROWOLO1
Course: Advanced Theories in Communication
Course Lecturer: Prof. Lai Oso, PhD
Introduction
The concept of framing was first posited by Gregory Bateson in 1972. He defined
psychological frames as a “spatial and temporary bounding of set of interactive messages”
(Bateson, 1972, p. 197) that operates as a form of metacommunication (Hallahan, 2008).
Framing describes the practice of thinking about news items and story content within familiar
context.
Framing is related to the agenda-setting tradition but expands the research by focusing on the
essence of the issues at hand rather than on a particular topic. The basis of framing theory is
that the media focuses attention on certain events and then places them within a field of
meaning (Mass Communication Theory (Online), 2017).
Framing theory suggests that how something is presented to the audience (called “the
frame”) influences the choices people make about how to process that information. Frames
are abstractions that work to organize or structure message meaning. The most common use
of frames is in terms of the frame the news or media place on the information they convey,
(op cit).
Framing theory explains that the media create this frame by introducing news items with
predefined and narrow contextualisation. Frames can be designed to enhance understanding
or are used as cognitive shortcuts to link stories to the bigger picture.
While there is a clear conceptual intersection between concept of framing (Weaver, 2007),
the idea of framing is similar to the ‘second level’ of agenda setting which “examines the
relative salience of attributes of issues, as McCombs (2005) and Ghanem (1997) as described
in detail. These agenda of attribute are called “the second level” which varies from “the first
level that has traditionally focused on issues (objects), although the term “level” implies that
attributes are more specific than objects” (Weaver, ibid).
(Mass Communication Theory (Online), 2017) lso agree with (Weaver, 2007) that,
“it could be construed as a form of second level agenda-setting – they
not only tell the audience what to think about (agenda-setting theory),
but also how to think about that issue (second level agenda setting,
framing theory), (Mass Communication Theory (Online), 2017).
The Frame works
(Goffman, 1974), under the title of Frame Analysis put forth that people interpret what is
going on around their world through their primary framework. This framework is regarded

1 School of Communication, Lagos State University, Ojo, Lagos.
© 2017
as primary as it is taken for granted by the user. Its usefulness as a framework does not depend
on other frameworks.
According to (Mass Communication Theory (Online), 2017), Goffman (1974) states that
there are two distinctions within primary frameworks: natural + social. Both play the role of
helping individuals interpret data. So that their experiences can be understood in a wider
social context. The difference between the two is functional.
 Natural frameworks identify events as physical occurrences taking natural quote literally and
not attributing any social forces to the causation of events.
 Social frameworks view events as socially driven occurrences, due to the whims, goals, and
manipulations on the part of other social players (people). Social frameworks are built on the
natural frameworks. These frameworks and the frames that they create in our communication
greatly influence how data is interpreted, processed, and communicated. Goffman’s underlying
assumption is that individuals are capable users of these frameworks on a day to day basis.
Whether they are aware of them or not. (Mass Communication Theory (Online), 2017)
Thus, the idea of framing means to “draw attention to certain attributes of the objects of news
coverage, as well as to the objects themselves” (op cit).
Frames can be defined as organising ideas or themes, ways of linking together stories
historically, building up a narrative over time and across political space.
Nature of framing
Entman in his original article, Framing US Coverage of international News: Contrast in
Narratives of KAL and Iran Air Incidents, which sprang debates on the concept of framing
wrote that,
Unless the narratives are compared, frames are difficult to detect fully
and reliably, because many of the framing devices can appear as
“natural,” unremarkable choices of words or images, (Entman, 1991,
p. 6).
This explains that the nature of framing cannot be easily identified. However, “comparison
reveal that such choices are not inevitable or unproblematic but rather are central to the way
the news frame helps establish the literally ‘common sense” (i.e. widespread) interpretation
of events”, (op cit).
To be able to identify framing in the news, (Entman, 1991) identifies five popular ways for
framing news stories:
Conflict – conflict between parties can be prioritised, as opposed to the actual decision
made.
Human Interest/Personalisation – presenting a story with human face, personality is
promoted over more important aspects.
Consequence – consequences can be wide ranging. Pursuing a policy may be unwise
in terms of unity within a party or coalition or in terms of the status of a nation globally.
Morality – media coverage can often moralise, sometimes due to the indiscretions of
political actors; or alternative, policies can be seen as morally questionable. E.g
Michael Moore’s editorialising of the US Patriot Act, worldwide critique of US
foreign policy all take a moral tone
© 2017
Responsibility – attributing responsibility, either for a cause or a solution. In the wake
of Asian Tsunami one frame was “global responsibility” for find solutions as well as
blaming the lack of preparedness on the local governments.
Types of Frames
a) Specific – For instance, reporting the Asian Tsunami was linked to consequences, how
many further deaths there could be if aid was not received, and issues of responsibility.
b) Generic – For example, conflict and the game of politics as opposed to frames of
values.
Levels of Framing
a) Frame in communication – consist of communication from different actors, sources of
the news. This could be positive or negative.
b) Framing in thought – consist of mental representation, interpretation, simplification
“and if not manipulation” of reality.
Focus of News framing
a) To establish a cognitive shortcut
b) Oversimplified news
c) Distracts public from important issues
d) Limits the ability of audience to think outside the box
e) Activation of magic bullet effect of cognitively shaped audience.
Summary
Framing focus on how media draws the public’s eye to specific topics – setting agenda, and
then it takes a step further to create a frame, through which the audience will comprehend
such information. Creating frames for stories is commonly a mindful choice by sources,
reporters, journalists and/or editors. The in a way justifies the media as gatekeepers who
mindfully collect, select, “organize and present the ideas, events, and topics they cover” (
(Mass Communication Theory (Online), 2017).
References
Bateson, G. (1972). Steps to an ecology of mind: Collected essays in anthropology, psychology, evolution and
epistemology. San Francisco, CA: Chandler.
Entman, R. M. (1991). Framing US Coverage of international News: Contrast in Narratives of KAL and Iran Air
Incidents. Journal of Communication, 41 (4),, 6 – 27.
Goffman, E. (1974). Frame Analysis: An Essay on the Organization of Experience. . New York, NY et al.: Harper &
Row.
Hallahan, K. (2008). Strategic Framing. International Encyclopedia of Communication, Blackwell.
Mass Communication Theory (Online). (2017, January 31). Framing Theory. Retrieved from Mass Communication
Theory: https://masscommtheory.com/theory-overviews/framing-theory/
Weaver, D. (2007). Thought on Agenda Setting, Framing and Priming. . Journal of Communication, 142 – 147.
View publication stats