Dear Global Talent Visa Endorsement Panel, British Academy

I am writing to you to provide a reference letter for a UK Global Talent (Exceptional Talent) Visa under the British Academy endorsement route - in relation to Dr Olasunkanmi Arowolo.

I am a Professor of Media and Development at the University of East Anglia, UK. I was Dr Olasunkanmi Arowolo’s external examiner for his PhD viva held on 31 July 2025. 

Both examiners were in agreement that Olasunkami Arowolo’s PhD thesis clearly meets the criteria for the award of a PhD degree. It makes a valuable and original contribution to our understanding of how media coverage and public discourse influence the perception and implementation of social welfare programmes in Nigeria. It is based on rich empirical evidence and offers the potential to shape future media representation and policy initiatives towards poverty alleviation, both in Nigeria and the wider region. 

In the oral examination, Dr Olasunkanmi Arowolo’s impressed us with his enthusiasm, knowledge and intellectual ability. In response to our questions, he demonstrated deep knowledge of the topic and the willingness to build on our feedback for future publications from the thesis. For these reasons, we had no hesitation in recommending that this PhD should be awarded without corrections.

Beyond his PhD, I am aware that Olasunkanmi Arowolo has maintained an active publication record and research portfolio. His Google Scholar profile reflects over 261 citations in the past five years and recent media mentions of his work have appeared in major Nigerian news outlets. 

•	Evaluation of my contributions to teaching, research, and the academic community, including evidence of positive student feedback and an active research profile.

Olasunkanmi Arowolo exemplifies exceptional talent through a combination of advanced academic expertise, a strong record of impactful research, and demonstrable contributions to innovation in their field. Indeed, I am struck by the wide range of knowledge exchange initiatives Dr Olasunkanmi Arowolo has embarked on – to disseminate the results of his PhD – to a range of stakeholders. This aligns with the UK’s drive for high-impact research that fuels both economic growth and societal development. 

I am happy to confirm that Confirm that Olasunkami Arowolo is a member of the University of Kent - a reputable UK organisation concerned with research or innovation in my field. I am also happy to confirm that I am providing this assessment in my capacity as an objective expert. 
Please contact me if you have any further questions.

Regards
