[Insert job title]
[Add once role sent to GRS]
*Applicants should be aware DCMS is going through an
exercise to demerge its Band B grade - which is
currently a joint HEO/SEO banding. This vacancy is
subject to this exercise and, as such, will ultimately be
deemed as either a HEO or SEO role.
Job title: Senior policy advisors, press
policy
Grade: HEO
Job reference: 419354
Closing time and date: Sunday 17th August 23:55
Contents
About DCMS
Equity,
Diversity &
Inclusion
About the
team About the role Person
specification
Job details How to apply Selection
process
Use of AI in
job
applications
Employee
benefits
Our
Headquarters
Information
for Applicants
How DCMS delivers for the nation
DCMS celebrates what makes life in the UK unique, recognising the vital role culture, arts, media, sport, tourism and
civil society play in supporting the economy and shaping our image on the world stage. Our sectors are a powerful
force for economic growth and opportunity, contributing £170 billion to the economy, supporting 4 million jobs and
acting as a source of soft power and national pride. From the Premier League to the silver screen, our sectors are in
huge demand around the world. This influence is what makes DCMS so integral to delivering the government’s
mission led agenda.
DCMS is addressing the financial sustainability of the nation’s game with the Football Governance Bill and driving
grassroots investment to boost sports participation nationwide. We are developing world-leading, complex regulatory
reforms on gambling, in addition to overseeing the National Lottery, which has delivered more than £49bn for good
causes in its 30 years. We also deliver some of the world’s most significant events. From His Majesty the King’s
Coronation to the Champions League Final, DCMS has enhanced the UK’s reputation as leaders in event delivery.
As a department, we support initiatives that enrich everyday life: funding museums, galleries, cinemas and theatres;
enhancing youth facilities and backing charities that make an incredible impact. All of which bring pride to local
communities and provides substantial health and wellbeing benefits for the people we serve.
As an employer, DCMS has among the highest engagement scores of all Civil Service departments. Our annual
People Survey scores consistently show staff are proud to work for us and are inspired by our mission.
To find out more about DCMS, and what it is like working here, take a look at our LinkedIn and GOV.UK pages
Welcome from our Permanent Secretary
Welcome message from Susannah Storey
Thank you for your interest in DCMS. Whether you are at the beginning of
your career, returning after a break or looking for a change of direction,
DCMS is a really special place to work and I am confident we have
something for everyone interested in working in the Civil Service.
Our policy areas are among the most exciting and creative in government.
Our people play a vital role in the development and delivery of government
policy across the arts, creative industries, media, tourism, civil society and
sport. The work we do as a department drives growth and enriches lives.
There are many opportunities to work in our policy areas and in our
corporate centre, supporting the department to deliver on its strategic
objectives.
We are a department that values its staff. We have a number of great staff
networks who represent and advocate for the best interests of our people
and are engaged in the department’s decision making. As an organisation
we really live and breathe our values and work hard to create a culture that
our staff enjoy working in. I really hope you can join us to play a part in
DCMS on our journey as a department.
Address: Bloc, 17 Marble St, Manchester, M2 3AW
What it’s like to work in our Manchester office:
Alongside our London office, we opened our second Headquarters in
Manchester in February 2022 and the office now accommodates our largest
regional workforce.
Our office is located in Manchester City Centre (M2) and is a 10 minute walk
from Manchester Piccadilly and Victoria Train Station. We are also accessible
by tram and bus routes across Greater Manchester from Piccadilly Gardens
and St Peter’s Square.
The Manchester office is super central,
really comfortable and has such a warm
and welcoming atmosphere. As someone
fairly new to the civil service I feel I made
the right decision coming to work for
DCMS up north!
Manchester office headquarters
Freddie - Workplace Experience Manager
Our commitment to Equity, Diversity & Inclusion
At DCMS, we are dedicated to attracting, nurturing, and investing in talent
wherever it is found.
We are committed to fostering a workplace where everyone feels a true
sense of belonging and can confidently be their authentic selves. To
support this, we have a wide range of Staff Diversity Networks, which
include groups focused on race, gender, disability, LGBTQIA+, carers,
social mobility, EU nationals, and religion or beliefs. These networks are
easy to join and open to all employees from their first day with us.
DCMS is dedicated to addressing disparity by expanding opportunities and
creating an environment where everyone, regardless of their background or
location, has the chance to succeed and thrive.
Examples of how we deliver this through our recruitment process include:
● We advertise our roles on a wide range of platforms to engage with
and attract candidates, including job boards such as Restless and
Vercida.
● DCMS is an accredited Disability Confident Leader under the
government's Disability Confident Scheme which denotes
organisations that have a positive commitment towards disabled
people. We guarantee to interview anyone with a disability whose
application meets the minimum criteria for the role.
● DCMS is committed to the Great Place to Work for Veterans
scheme, which is is designed to encourage more veterans to join the
Civil Service when they leave the armed forces. We guarantee to
interview any veterans whose application meets the minimum criteria
for the role.
● DCMS welcomes applications from people who have recently left
prison or who have an unspent conviction. If a successful applicant
has a criminal record we will consider whether or not to proceed with
an offer of employment on a case by case basis. Further information
about Prison Leaver recruitment can be found on the Civil Service
Careers site.
● We offer reasonable adjustments at application and interview to enable
all candidates to perform at their best. Similarly, any required
workplace adjustments will be in place from your first day.
● In all instances, recruitment panels will be diverse on the basis of
gender and experience.
About the team
The roles sit within the Radio, Advertising and Press (RAP) team
which is part of the Media and International Directorate (MINT) at
DCMS. MINT supports a thriving media environment that drives
growth and fosters social cohesion, while also promoting DCMS
sectors and interests globally.
As part of that, RAP work is focused on supporting a free media
underpinned by high-quality journalism and a diverse and
sustainable press sector, that helps democracy and communities to
thrive and protects the integrity of the UK information environment.
RAP is a friendly, supportive and policy-focused team, leading on a
wide variety of interesting issues, including the UK’s media
ownership regime, trust, transparency and accountability in the
online advertising market, the future of the radio and audio
industries, and the safety of journalists facing abuse and
harassment. These roles are focused on the financial sustainability of
public interest journalism, and in particular work to support local
journalism through a Local Media Strategy.
Our people and our values
Hafsah
Policy Advisor, MINT
DCMS culture has allowed me to bring my
whole self to work and thrive in an
environment which champions inclusivity and
creativity. I am part of a collaborative team
which has encouraged me to be ambitious and
strive for the best in everything I do. I have
accomplished many things at DCMS which
before joining felt out of reach and I now feel
motivated as ever to achieve my goals.
Meah
Social Mobility Network Chair
Chairing the Social Mobility Network has been an excellent
opportunity to develop our outreach and development strategies
across the Department and wider Civil Service to advocate for
applicants, colleagues and people across our sectors from lower
socioeconomic backgrounds. It has been a highlight of my career at
DCMS so far, most notably including our team talks where our D&I
team champion social mobility, and the launch of our new mentoring
programme that we look forward to expanding in 2025. As social
mobility is not a protected characteristic under the Equality Act (2010)
it is crucial that we include this by raising awareness of issues and
lived experiences. Alongside improving the experience of colleagues
and our recruitment practices, it is further proving impactful to
advocate for social mobility as a policy consideration in programme
development across our sectors. The network offers a positive space
to foster community across the Department and a chance to engage
with colleagues across teams you may not interact with otherwise.
About the role
These are varied, fascinating and fast-paced roles currently focused on
the Local Media Strategy, a ministerial priority. The financial sustainability
of public interest journalism, particularly at local level, is a major concern,
with repercussions for democracy, public trust and social cohesion. With
this in mind, the Local Media Strategy is intended to help secure the long
term future of local journalism.
Postholders would play a key role driving this work forward, and may also
be engaged in wider work, including on the interaction between AI and
copyright, the Competition and Markets Authority’s implementation of
digital competition legislation and the next BBC Charter Review.
Postholders will help develop and deliver policy in the Strategy, with
opportunity to lead on discreet workstrands and on overall project
management of the Strategy. They will engage with a variety of
stakeholders from other parts of Government, news publishers and
broadcasters, tech firms and local authorities. They will help draft policy
papers, advice, briefings, correspondence and answers to parliamentary
questions for ministers. And they will monitor developments and trends to
help anticipate emerging challenges to wider press sustainability.
Essential requirements: Desirable skills:
The ideal candidate would have the following key skills and experience:
● Written and oral communication skills, including the
ability to succinctly explain complex issues to a
diverse range of stakeholders.
● A proven ability to identify, analyse and assess
evidence from a range of different sources to
inform effective decision-making.
● A team player, able to build and maintain strong
relationships with colleagues and other
stakeholders with potentially contrasting priorities,
to influence and deliver shared goals.
● Highly organised and able to deliver across
multiple priorities and respond when required to
time-sensitive deadlines.
What are we looking for?
● Interest and/or experience in the media, journalism
and the UK’s information ecosystem
Job details
Number of roles: 2
Salary: National £34,584 - £38,044 + benefits.
If you are applying from another Government Department on a lateral move
we will match your base salary, or you will join on our pay band minimum -
whichever is higher. However you will not be automatically entitled to transfer
any allowances. If you currently have an allowance please check with the
Vacancy Holder if it’s transferable. If you are an external applicant, you will
join on our pay band minimum.
Contract type: Loan (for existing civil servants applying from an
OGD), Secondment or Fixed-Term Appointment (for external
candidates)
Please note: Existing Civil Servants applying from an OGD will require prior
permission from their line managers to be released on loan should they be
successful in securing this role.
Length of contract: 2 years
Who can apply?: Civil Servants and external applicants
Level of security clearance required: You must hold, or be
willing to obtain CTC level. Information on eligibility for security vetting
can be found here.
Working patterns: Full-time, Flexible Working - does not include
part-time
Working hours: 37 hours
Location: This role is based from our Manchester office.
While DCMS has other office locations, we cannot consider requests to be
based at an alternative location.
DCMS operates a hybrid working policy whereby individuals are
required, from their start date, to spend 60% of their working hours at
their office location and they can work the remaining 40% from home.
Occasional travel to London may be required.
Employee benefits
As a DCMS employee, you’ll be entitled to a large range of benefits including:
A Civil Service
pension -
28.97%
employer
contribution
26.5 days
annual leave -
rising to 31.5
after 5 years
service
Employee
benefits system
and staff
reward and
recognition
bonuses
Staff wellbeing,
flexible working
and hybrid
working
Exceptional
learning and
development
opportunities
9 months full pay
for maternity,
adoption and
shared parental
leave
Information session
We are running an information session where prospective
applicants can find out more about the role. This will be
hosted by the vacancy holder, and will take place on:
- Tuesday 12th August from 3-3.45pm
The session will be an opportunity to hear more about the
role, the team and wider directorate and the department.
It will also be an opportunity for you to ask any questions.
Please register your interest by filling out this Registration
form by Monday 11th August at 5pm and you will be
sent an invitation.
Please note that the session will not be recorded and
will not focus on the DCMS recruitment process - please
direct any queries that you have on this topic (timelines,
reasonable adjustments, onboarding etc) to
recruitment.team@dcms.gov.uk
How to apply
To apply for this vacancy, you will need to submit the following documents which will assessed against
the experience success profile:
➔ A CV setting out your career history, with key responsibilities and achievements. Please ensure
you provide employment history that relates to the essential and desirable criteria, and that any
gaps in employment history within the last 2 years are explained. The CV should not exceed
more than 2 x A4 pages and you should insert your CV into the "Job History" section on the Civil
Service Jobs application form.
➔ A Statement of Suitability (max 750 words) explaining how you consider your personal skills,
qualities and experience provide evidence of your suitability for the role in reference to the
essential requirements highlighted. You may also choose to reference the desirable skills listed
however these will not be considered in the assessment of your application except in
circumstances where there are a high number and calibre of candidates.
For the shortlist, we will select applicants demonstrating the best fit for the role by considering the
evidence provided in your application.
In the event of a large number of applicants, an initial sift will be conducted on the Statement of
Suitability. Those who are successful in the initial sift will then be scored on all elements of the
application.
For support in writing your application and interviewing, please refer to the ‘Application and
Interview Guidance’ document attached to the job advert.
Selection process details
Want to know more about DCMS
recruitment and selection processes?
Attend our Recruitment
Workshop on Application and
Interview Guidance
Register your interest for our upcoming
workshops via this sign up form, or using
the QR code.
Candidates are asked to note the above timetable, exercising
flexibility through the recruitment and selection process.
Advert closing date:
Shortlisting:
Interviews:
Feedback:
Sunday 17th August 23:55
W/C 18th August
W/C 1st September
W/C 8th September
The interview
The interview process will assess behaviours and strengths.
The behaviours to be tested at interview are:
● Communicating and Influencing
● Working Together
● Delivering at Pace
You will not be made aware of the strengths being assessed prior to your
interview.
You may also be required to prepare a presentation. Full details of this,
including the topic, length of time, and whether or not you will need to use
visual aids, will be sent to you prior to your interview.
Your interview will take place remotely via GoogleMeets.
How to prepare
Most assessment processes will include:
Behaviour questions
Behaviours relate to whether applicants have the skills to carry
out specific tasks by asking for examples of their experience.
When answering these type of questions, we recommend you
use the ‘STAR’ model:
● Situation
● Task
● Action
● Result
Strength questions
These questions highlight what energises a person, what they
like to do and what is important to them; strengths are innate so
cannot be learned. We are looking to get a sense of your first
natural response and for this reason we will not mention which
strengths are being assessed.
For more guidance on how to prepare, refer to the Application
and Interview Guidance attached to the job advert.
Throughout the assessment process, you will be assessed
using the Civil Service Success Profiles.
The Success Profiles framework is what the Civil Service use to
assess candidates, in order to find the right person for the job.
Select each box for more information about each item
Use of AI in job applications
Acceptable use of AI
• Idea Development: help you refine and
clarify your ideas and thoughts
• Research: explore DCMS projects,
public initiatives, and
industry/profession trends.
• Proofreading: check spelling,
grammar, and clarity.
• Interview Prep: conduct mock
interviews for anticipated questions.
Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools like
ChatGPT, Claude, Copilot, and Gemini
can help you enhance your application
and prepare for the process but it is
essential you use them appropriately.
They must not be used to provide
misleading or false information at any
stage of the application journey.
The Civil Service AI Candidate Guidance
suggests ways to use AI that may be
helpful to you.
The most important thing to remember is
that we want to find out about you and
how you align with DCMS and the Civil
Service. Your application should
represent your skills and personal
experiences accurately and
authentically.
Unacceptable use of AI
• Misrepresentation: inflating or inventing
your skills and experiences.
• Copy-Pasting: copying generic AI
responses into your application
• Assessment Assistance: completing
tests designed to measure abilities.
• Sensitive Information: inputting
confidential DCMS data.
• Live Interviews: using AI-generated
answers during interviews.
Information for applicants
What you will need to work at DCMS:
● To reside and have the right to work in the UK.
● To possess a National Insurance Number.
● To have, or be willing to obtain, the required level of
security clearance. Please note, for candidates
external to the Civil Service, the baseline security
clearance required to start at DCMS can take on
average 28 days to complete.
What nationality do I need to hold in order to apply?
You must meet the Civil Service Nationality rules, which can
be found here.
For some roles, DCMS may be able to sponsor applicants
who require a visa to work in the UK, providing you meet the
nationality eligibility criteria. Sponsorship is granted under the
Skilled Worker Visa route. Applicants who require a visa are
advised to make vacancy holders aware of this at the earliest
opportunity.
Diverse Interview Panel
You will be interviewed by a panel which has diversity of
thought, experience and background. If you have any
questions on this, please contact the DCMS recruitment
team.
Feedback
Please note you will only receive feedback if you reach the
interview stage.
Following interview, all candidates will receive a score along
with some short written feedback on your performance at
interview.
Complaints
If you feel your application has not been treated in
accordance with the Civil Service Commission’s Recruitment
Principles, and you wish to make a complaint, please contact
the team at recruitment.team@dcms.gov.uk and address your
query to our Head of HR Delivery.
Questions?
If you have any questions about the role please attend the information session.
Alternatively, you can contact the vacancy holder directly:
ed.little@dcms.gov.uk, however, please note that depending on volumes it may
not be possible to respond to all queries before the advert closes, so we would
advise attending the information session where possible.
If you have any questions about the recruitment process, please either attend
the recruitment workshop, or contact us on recruitment.team@dcms.gov.uk.
Should you encounter any issues with your online application please get in
touch with: dcmsrecruitment.grs@cabinetoffice.gov.uk.