The University of business, practice and the professions 
Post-Doctoral Research Fellow: 
Journalism and Democracy  
Department of Journalism  
School of Communication & Creativity  
April 2025  
Role Profile 
Post:    
Post-Doctoral Research Fellow 
Department:    
Department of Journalism  
School:    
School of Communication and Creativity  
Grade:     
6 
Tenure:     
Full time with funding for 24 months   
Responsible to:   
Professor Mel Bunce 
Context 
The Research Fellow role is situated within the Department of Journalism at City St George’s, University of 
London. The Journalism Department has been a leader in its field since 1976, and is ranked number one in 
the UK for Journalism (Guardian University Guide 2023) and number one in the UK for graduate outcomes in 
Communication and Media (Complete University Guide 2024). Based in the centre of London, the 
Department has a lively research community, strong industry links, and regular high-profile events.  
Job Purpose 
The research fellow will play a central role in a research project about independent journalism and 
democracy. This project is funded by an ESRC / Trans-Atlantic Partnership Grant and it has teams of leading 
researchers in Canada, the UK, Brazil, and South Africa.  
Details of the EDIT research project  
Details of the EDIT researchers 
The research fellow will be on “Team UK” working with Professor Mel Bunce and Dr Richard Fletcher, and a 
research assistant. The fellow will do literature reviews, run interviews and focus groups, pitch and develop 
conference presentations, journal articles and other outputs, attend international conferences, and be an 
active member of our international research team. 
This job offers many opportunities for professional development and mentorship, including collaborative 
working on academic publications and conference presentations, and the chance to collaborate with, and 
learn from, a network of top international scholars.  
While this is a research position, if the successful applicant is interested, we can also offer opportunities to 
develop silks and experience in teaching, supervision, leadership, and other related academic skills.  
Main Responsibilities 
The successful candidate is expected to contribute to the following main duties: 
• Produce a systematic literature review looking at how academics have defined and studies 
independent journalism in the United Kingdom   
• Run focus groups and interviews with citizens, journalists, editors and journalism funders  
• Draft journal articles / chapters – working with the research team  
• Prepare conference presentations and other outputs  
• Actively participating in the international research group, as well as the research community at City St 
George’s, University of London. 
Additional information 
• The post holder must at all times carry out their responsibilities with due regard to City St George’s, 
University of London’s Equal Opportunities Statement. 
• The post holder must accept responsibility for ensuring that the policies and procedures relating to 
Health and Safety in the workplace are adhered to at all times. 
• The post holder must respect the confidentiality of data stored electronically and by other means in 
line with General Data Protection Regulation 2018 (GDPR) the Data Protection Act 2018. 
• The post holder must carry out their responsibilities with due regard to the non-smoking environment 
of City St George’s, University of London. 
• Workplace values 
The post holder will be expected to operate in line with City St George’s workplace values which are:  
• We care 
• We learn 
• We act  
• Sustainable Development 
City St George’s, University of London is committed to a policy of best practice to assist in building a 
sustainable way of life by taking a positive, solutions-orientated approach. All post holders are 
encouraged to contribute through their roles to improving the environment for City St George’s and the 
wider community.  
Details of policy, information and staff development supporting the policy on the environment and 
sustainability can be found at www.city.ac.uk/green-policies. 
The above list is not exclusive or exhaustive and the post holder will be required to undertake such duties as 
may reasonably be expected within the scope and grading of the post. All members of staff are required to 
be professional, co-operative and flexible in line with the needs of the post, Department, School and City St 
George’s, University of London. 
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Statement (EDI) 
City St George’s, University of London is committed to promoting equality, diversity and inclusion in all its 
activities, processes, and culture for our whole community, including staff, students and visitors. 
The university will meet its obligations under the Equality Act 2010 in recruitment and seek to eliminate 
discrimination on the basis of age, caring responsibilities, disability, gender identity, gender reassignment, 
marital status, nationality, pregnancy, race and ethnic origin, religion and belief, sex, sexual orientation and 
socio-economic background.  
Selection and promotion criteria are kept under review to ensure that individuals are treated on the basis of 
the job requirements and on their relevant personal merits; and are not disadvantaged by conditions or 
requirements which cannot be shown to be justifiable. City St George’s operates a guaranteed interview 
scheme for disabled applicants. 
Person Specification 
Post:    Post-Doctoral Research Fellow 
Department:   Department of Journalism  
 
School:   School of Communication & Creativity  
Grade: 6 
Tenure: Full time with funding for 24 months   
Responsible to:  Professor Mel Bunce 
 
 
Criteria Essential (E) 
or Desirable 
(D) 
Method(s) of 
Assessment: 
Application 
(A), Interview 
(I) or Exercise 
(E) 
Qualifications and Knowledge 
A PhD in Journalism, Media, Communications, Politics, Sociology or a 
closely related field. 
E A, I 
 
In-depth understanding of key theories, debates, and methodologies in 
communication and journalism research. 
E A,I 
 
A good understanding of the journalism landscape in the United 
Kingdom  
 
D A, I 
Experience 
Conducting independent, high-quality research - including designing and 
executing research projects. Ideally with experience with interviews and 
focus groups, and the software NVivo.  
E A,I 
 
Writing systematic literature reviews  E A,I 
Experience writing chapters / journal articles / books for peer reviewed 
scholarly.  
D 
  
A, I 
Experience in effectively communicating research findings to diverse 
audiences, including academics, policymakers, and the general public.  
 
D   
  
A, I 
Skills and Abilities 
Excellent communication and presentation skills. E A,I 
Strong organsational and administrative skills. E A,I 
Commitment to equality and diversity and City St George’s values
  
E A,I 
A good team player  E A,I 
The ability to use own initiative E A,I 
 
 
 
 
 
Salary and Conditions of Service 
The salient features of conditions of service for Research staff are as follows: 
• Salary will be within the range of £42,882 to £44,128 per annum on Grade 6 of the salary scales for 
Research staff. 
• Annual Leave is 30 days, plus 8 statutory and 4 additional days during the Christmas holiday period.  
•     This post has funding for 24 Months  
• Automatic entry into the Universities Superannuation Scheme (USS) with the option to opt out. 
• All offers of appointment are subject to City St George’s receiving satisfactory references and medical 
clearance. 
• All posts at City St George’s are subject to reasonable adjustment under the Equalities Act (2010). 
• All appointments at City St George’s are subject to a probationary period. 
• The appointment is terminable by three months’ notice on either side. 
Applications 
When preparing your application, you should address carefully the post details enclosed and in particular the 
qualities outlined in the Person Specification.  Please include examples where appropriate. 
All applications must be received by the advertised deadline. 
Further Information 
City St George’s operates a no-smoking policy. 
City St George’s offers an excellent pension scheme, generous leave allowance, season ticket loan, a good 
working environment and access to fitness and social facilities. 
City St George’s confirms its commitment to equal opportunities in all its activities.  It is intended that no job 
applicant or employee will receive less favourable treatment on the grounds of political belief, sex, sexual 
orientation, disability, marital status, race, nationality, ethnic origin, religion or social class.  Selection and 
promotion criteria are kept under review to ensure that individuals are treated on the basis of the job 
requirements and on their relevant personal merits; and are not disadvantaged by conditions or requirements 
which cannot be shown to be justifiable. 
If you have a disability and are interested in this post, City St George’s welcomes your application.  For an 
informal discussion you may wish to contact the Recruitment Team on: 
Telephone: 
E-mail:  
020 7040 3085 
recruit@city.ac.uk 