Personal Information
•	Title (Required): Mr. ??? (Will that disqualify me?) Can I use Dr. before Viva (since I have submitted?
•	First Name (known as) (Required): Olasunkanmi 
•	Surname (known as) (Required): Arowolo
•	Middle Names (known as): Sunday
•	Email Address (Required): olasunkanmiarowolo@gmail.com
•	Preferred Phone Number (Required): 07487397751
•	Country Code: +44
•	Alternative Phone Number: 
•	Country Code:
•	Address Line 1 (Required): 85 Wickham Street
•	Address Line 2: ).
•	Town/City (Required): Rochester	
•	Postcode (Required): ME1 2HH
•	Country & Region (Required):  United Kingdom
•	Salary Sought (£) (Required): ???
•	Are related to or acquainted with an employee of the University? (Required): No
•	Are you currently engaged as an Agency Worker (including via Unitemps) at City St George’s, University of London? (Required): No
•	Where did you initially see this position advertised? (Required): jobs.ac.uk
Employment History / Qualifications
•	Current or most recent employment:
o	Are you currently employed by City St George's, University of London through either a permanent or fixed term, salaried, contract of employment? (Required): No 
o	Are you currently studying at City St George's, University of London? (Required): No
o	Name of current or most recent employer: (Required): East Kent College, Ashford (Contracted through Dovetail & Slate)
o	Nature of business: (Required): Education / Further Education College
o	Position held: (Required): Lecturer (Media/Core Communication), Health and Social Care
o	Start Date: (Required): 2 / 11 / 2023
o	End Date (Please leave blank if still employed): 19 / 12 / 2024
o	Brief description of main duties and responsibilities: (Required): Delivered engaging instruction in Health and Social Care to 76 students, with a focus on media communication relevant to the UK context. Developed 8 tailored lesson plans incorporating real-world media scenarios (e.g., audio-visual storytelling, communication ethics, media literacy). Assessed progress for 76 students, providing constructive feedback to enhance understanding of media and communication principles. Collaborated with 3 colleagues to align media aspects of the programme with industry standards.
•	Previous Employment:
o	Employer 1
	Employers Name: University of Kent, Chatham, United Kingdom
	Positions Job Title: Assistant Lecturer, Centre for Journalism
	From: __ / 09 / 2022
	Until: __/ 7 / 2023
	Job Description: Delivered teaching for 'Studying Journalism' module (JOUR4050) to undergraduate students. Developed teaching materials for seminar groups covering journalism ethics, research methods, and UK media issues. Set and marked assignments, providing feedback. Contributed to programme planning and curriculum refinement. Collaborated on course development. Mentored undergraduate students.
	Reason for leaving: End of contract
o	Employer 2
	Employers Name: University of Kent, Canterbury, UK
	Positions Job Title: Assistant Lecturer (HPL), School of Social Policy, Sociology & Social Research
	From: __/ 09 / 2021
	Until: __/ -Month- / 2022
	Job Description: Led seminar teaching for modules SOCI3370 and SOCI5750. Developed instructional materials. Evaluated student progress and provided feedback. Contributed to educational programme planning and curriculum revisions.
	Reason for leaving: End of contract 
o	Employer 3
	Employers Name: Lagos State University, School of Communication
	Positions Job Title: Assistant Lecturer, Department of Journalism
	From: 5 / 06 / 2018
	Until: 9 / 05 / 2021
	Job Description: Developed and delivered teaching materials for undergraduate courses in Writing for Mass Media, Introduction to Photo Journalism, Photo-Journalism Management, Photo Editing, and Newspaper and Magazine Production. Supervised practical journalism work for students. Conducted student assessments and contributed to research activities.
	Reason for leaving: Pursued PhD studies in the UK 
o	Employer 4
	Employers Name: Lagos State University, Ojo, Department of Journalism, School of Communication
	Positions Job Title: Graduate Assistant
	From: 5 / 06 / 2017
	Until: 4 / 05 / 2018
	Job Description: Supported teaching and research activities, including delivering tutorial sessions for over 250 students. Assisted in developing teaching materials and overseeing practical work.
	Reason for leaving: Promotion to Assistant Lecturer / Career progression
o	Employer 5
	Employers Name: Osun State University, Ikire, Department of Languages, Linguistics, and Communication Studies
	Positions Job Title: Graduate Assistant
	From: __ / 06 / 2015
	Until: __ / 04 / 2016
	Job Description: Assisted academic staff by conducting tutorial sessions for students in communication studies.
	Reason for leaving: Further studies / Career progression 
•	Qualifications:
o	Qualification 1:
	Qualification and Subject: (Required): PhD in Journalism
	Institution: (Required): University of Kent, England
	Result / Grade: (Required): awarded without corrections
	Last Year Attended: (Required): Present (or April 2025 if a specific year is needed)
o	Qualification 2:
	Qualification and Subject: (Required): Master of Science (M.Sc.), Communication Studies
	Institution: (Required): Lagos State University, School of Communication
	Result / Grade: (Required): 4.01
	Last Year Attended: (Required): 2019
o	Qualification 3:
	Qualification and Subject: (Required): Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) (Hons), Mass Communication
	Institution: (Required): Lagos State University, School of Communication
	Result / Grade: (Required): 4.1
	Last Year Attended: (Required): 2015
•	Membership of Professional Bodies:
o	Professional Body 1:
	Professional Body Name: International Communication Association (ICA)
	Registration Number / Level: Member
	Registration Date: 
o	Professional Body 2:
	Professional Body Name: Public Communication of Science and Technology (PCST)
	Registration Number / Level: Member
	Registration Date: 
o	Professional Body 3:
	Professional Body Name: Association of Communication Scholars, and Professionals of Nigeria (ACSPN)
	Registration Number / Level: Member
	Registration Date:  
o	Professional Body 4:
	Professional Body Name: African Council for Communication Education (ACCE)
	Registration Number / Level: Member
	Registration Date:  
Disability Confident & Guaranteed Interview Scheme
•	Do you consider yourself to have a disability as described by the Equality Act 2010? (Required): No	
Application Questions
Please review the Qualifications and Knowledge section of the candidate specification and provide examples to demonstrate how you meet the criteria listed. (Required)
I hold a PhD in Journalism (awarded without corrections) from the University of Kent

Please review the Experience section of the candidate specification and provide examples to demonstrate how you meet the criteria listed. (Required)
I have substantial experience in conducting independent, high-quality research, including designing and executing research projects (E). My doctoral thesis exemplifies this, where I independently designed the research, conducted 10 in-depth interviews and 3 focus groups with journalists, and analysed the data using NVivo. This demonstrates direct experience with interviews and focus groups, and the software NVivo (E). While my CV highlights my proficiency in developing systematic literature reviews as a skill, my doctoral work inherently involved extensive literature synthesis to frame the research, and I am confident in my ability to produce a systematic literature review as required (E). I have experience writing chapters / journal articles / books for peer-reviewed scholarly audiences (D), as evidenced by my publications, including articles in 'Global Knowledge, Memory and Communication,' 'Cogent Social Sciences,' and the 'East African Journal of Interdisciplinary Studies,' as well as book chapters. My conference presentations (e.g., AEJMC Midwinter Conference 2024) and public communication pieces (e.g., "Rethinking Nigeria’s Media Landscape") demonstrate my experience in effectively communicating research findings to diverse audiences, including academics and the general public (D), and I am keen to extend this to policymakers."

Please review the Skills and Abilities section of the candidate specification and provide examples to demonstrate how you meet the criteria listed. (Required)
I possess excellent communication and presentation skills (E), honed through delivering academic lectures and presentations at international conferences (e.g., AEJMC) and teaching diverse student groups at institutions like the University of Kent and East Kent College. My experience in managing my doctoral research project from inception to submission, alongside contributions to teaching programme planning and curriculum development at the University of Kent, demonstrates strong organisational and administrative skills (E). My professional commitments, as stated in my CV, are dedicated to fostering inclusive and equitable practices, aligning with a commitment to equality and diversity and City St George’s values (E). My collaborative work on research publications (e.g., Shodipe et al., 2024; Oso et al., 2024) and teaching experiences, which involved working with academic colleagues on course development, highlight my ability to be a good team player (E). Designing and executing my doctoral research, as well as developing new teaching materials and initiating ongoing research projects (such as the comparative study of independent journalism funding), showcases the ability to use my own initiative (E).

Teaching / Research Information
•	Please use this section to provide details of your recent publications. If you have a separate publications list please attach this as a separate document to your application. (Required)
o	A full list is available in my CV. Recent peer-reviewed publications include:
	Shodipe, O.A., Arowolo, O., et al. (2024), Visual portrayal of Monkeypox outbreak on BBC... Global Knowledge, Memory and Communication.
	Oso Lai, Adeniran, R., & Arowolo, O. (2024). Journalism Ethics: The Dilemma... Cogent Social Sciences.
	Arowolo, O., Yusuf, K., et al. (2023). World Bank Concept of Good Governance... East African Journal of Interdisciplinary Studies. 
Recent conference papers include:
	Arowolo, S. O. (2024, March). Harnessing the Fourth Estate... AEJMC Midwinter Conference.
	Arowolo, S. O. and Oduolowu D. (2024) Cross-Border Perspectives... AEJMC Southeast Colloquium." 
	I am considering attaching the full CV if the character limit is an issue here, and just list a few key recent ones as above
Please use this section to record details of your research experience. If you exceed the limit for this section please attach your research experience as a separate document to your application. (Required)
My primary research experience is my doctoral thesis (awarded without corrections): "Poverty, Politics, and the Press: Uncovering the Complexities of Media Coverage on Nigeria’s Social Investment Programmes" (University of Kent).
Reference Details 
To add: Ben Cocking
Reference 1
o	Title/Form of address (Required): Dr.
o	First name (Required): Ben
o	Last name (Required): Cocking
o	Position (Required): Supervisor (PhD) / Senior Lecturer (or his current title)
o	Organisation (Required): University of Kent, Centre for Journalism
o	Email (Required): b.cocking@kent.ac.uk
o	Daytime Phone Number: 
o	Country Code: 
Notes: My PhD Supervisor at the University of Kent from 2021 to Present. Can speak to my research capabilities, academic performance, and suitability for a post-doctoral role.
I will be needing to add two more referees, one of whom should be your present or most recent employer (e.g., from East Kent College or Dovetail & Slate).
Attachments
•	List of research grants and contracts (secured and applied for)
o	To create a simple document listing:
	Secured: Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund), Federal Government of Nigeria University Doctoral Scholarship, University of Kent, 2021-Present.
	Applied for:  None currently applied for
Equality, Diversity & Inclusion
•	Nationality: (Required): Nigerian 
•	Second Nationality (if applicable): 
•	Gender: (Required): Male
•	Is your gender identity the same as the gender you were assigned at birth? (Required): Yes
•	Disability: ... Do you consider yourself to have a disability? (Required): None
•	Ethnic Origin: (Required): Black - African
•	Religion: (Required): Christianity
•	Sexual Orientation: (Required): Straight
Data Privacy Statement (Required): Agree
