An Exploration of Independent Journalism’s Epistemologies: Enhancing Democratic Resilience in the Age of Disinformation (EDIT)
Independence is considered a critical value of high-quality journalism in democratic societies. In an era where citizens struggle to discern trustworthy content, independent journalism is more important than ever. Simultaneously, independent journalists worldwide face physical, psychological, and economic attacks at increased rates. This situation underscores the need to emphasize the role of independent journalism in various contexts, its fundamental role in democratic societies, and its limitations. This project brings together experienced and emerging researchers based in Brazil, Canada, South Africa, the UK, the Netherlands and the US as collaborators and Co-PIs to study how independent journalism enhances trust and democratic resilience (the ability to uphold the quality of democratic institutions and practices). The project posits that independent journalism is not a monolithic construct and its meanings, perceptions, and interpretations are highly reliant on specific contexts. Therefore, this trans-Atlantic partnership will identify differences and similarities in how researchers, citizens, independent journalists, editors, founders of independent news organizations, and governments perceive and implement independent journalism. Thus, we explore the tensions that the core value of independence generates across various contexts to understand the multiple conditions and meanings of independent journalism as a core pillar in democratic societies. The emphasis of the project is on dialogue across countries between academics and organizations representing and advocating for independent journalism.

EDIT is one of 18 successful projects in the Democracy, Governance and Trust call of the Trans-Atlantic Platform Social Sciences and Humanities and is financed by SSHRC, NRF and UKRI, and has also received complementary funding provided by FAPESP.