Lecturer Teaching and Research
20354BR

Cardiff School of Journalism, Media and Cultural Studies

Teaching & Research

Advert

Lecturer (Teaching and Research)
School of Journalism, Media and Culture
College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences

An exciting opportunity has arisen in the School of Journalism, Media and Culture for a Lecturer (Teaching and  Research).

You will deliver high-quality and research-led teaching at both undergraduate and postgraduate level and contribute to the research record of the School through commitment to carrying out research leading to the publishing of high-quality research. You will pursue excellence in research, teaching and enterprise and inspire others to do the same. 

As the biggest university in Wales – and a major employer, with more than 7,000 staff – we are an ambitious and innovative university located in a beautiful and thriving capital city. We can offer you the chance to work in a vibrant organisation, with great benefits and opportunities for progression.  Cardiff University offers many excellent benefits, including 45  days annual leave (including bank holidays), a cycle to work scheme and other travel initiatives, annual increments up the pay scale, and more. It is an exciting and vibrant place to work, with many different challenges and is a proud Living Wage supporter.

Informal enquiries in relation to the recruitment / application process may be sent to Dr Matt Walsh 
(WalshM8@caerdydd.ac.uk).

This post is full-time (35 hours per week) and fixed term for three years to cover a staff absence.

Salary:  £51,039 - £55,755 per annum (Grade 7)

Date advert posted: Tuesday, 15 July 2025

Closing date: Wednesday, 6 August 2025

Cardiff University is committed to supporting and promoting equality and diversity and to creating an inclusive working environment. We believe this can be achieved through attracting, developing, and retaining a diverse range of staff from many different backgrounds who have the ambition to create a University which seeks to fulfil our social, cultural and economic obligation to Cardiff, Wales, and the world.  In supporting our employees to achieve a balance between their work and their personal lives, we will also consider proposals for flexible working or job share arrangements.

Applications may be submitted in Welsh, and an application submitted in Welsh will not be treated less favourably than an application submitted in English.

Cardiff University is a signatory to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA), which means that in hiring and promotion decisions we will evaluate applicants on the quality of their research, not publication metrics or the identity of the journal in which the research is published. More information is available at:  Responsible research assessment - Research - Cardiff University

Job Description

Research
•    To conduct research within media and communications and contribute to the overall internationally recognised research performance of the School and University by the production of measurable outputs including bidding for funding, publishing in peer-reviewed academic journals, international conferences and/or other research outputs, and the recruitment and supervision of research staff and postgraduate/MSc research students
•    To independently develop research objectives, projects or proposals for own or joint research including research funding acting as a PI as required. To develop research networks through regular national/international conference/seminar presentations 
•    To participate in School research activities. 

Teaching 
•    To independently contribute to module and curriculum development and lead modules at undergraduate and postgraduate levels, inspiring students
•    To carry out other forms of scholarship including work associated with examinations (setting and marking paper and providing constructive feedback to students), administration, participation in committee work, and the pastoral care of students of Cardiff University 
•    To supervise the work of students including the supervision of Undergraduate and Master’s students, the co-supervision of PGR’s and acting as a PGR progress review panel member as required
•    To act as a Personal Tutor and provide pastoral support to students

Other
•    To engage effectively with industrial, commercial and public sector organisations, professional institutions, other academic institutions etc., regionally and nationally to raise awareness of the School’s profile, to cultivate strategically valuable alliances, and to pursue opportunities for collaboration across a range of activities. These activities are expected to contribute to the School and the enhancement of its regional and national profile.
•    To participate in School administration and activities to promote the School and its work to the wider University and the outside world.
•    Any other duties not included above, but consistent with the role.
 

Person Specification

Essential Criteria

Qualifications and Education
1.    Postgraduate degree at PhD level in a related subject area or relevant industrial experience

2.    Postgraduate Certificate in University Teaching and Learning or equivalent qualification or experience

Knowledge, Skills and Experience
3.    An established expertise and proven portfolio of research in Media and Communications, with the following research areas especially welcome: :
i.     Digital Research Methods 
ii.     Digital Media Methods 
iii.     Creative industries policy 
iv.     AI, Internet and Data Studies 

4.    Significant teaching experience at a high level of quality at undergraduate/postgraduate level.

5.    Growing national reputation within academic field

6.    Proven substantial record of publications in national journals and/or other research outputs.

7.    Proven ability attain competitive research funding along with a strong portfolio of research grants

8.    Ability to contribute to the delivery and continued development of modules across the School teaching programmes

Pastoral, Communication and Team Working
9.    Proven ability in effective and persuasive communication

10.    The ability to provide appropriate pastoral support to students, appreciate the needs of individual students and their circumstances and to act as a personal tutor

Desirable Criteria

1.    Relevant professional qualification(s)

2.    Evidence of collaborations with industry

3.    Proven ability to work without close supervision

4.     Proven ability to adapt to the changing requirements of the Higher Education community
 
5.    Evidence of ability to participate in and develop both internal and external networks and utilise them to enhance the teaching and research activities of the School

6.    A willingness to take responsibility for academically related administration.

Additional Information

We are a top-rated institution in the UK for media teaching and research that helps to shape international media, journalism and communication landscapes. 

We offer a wide range of courses at various levels with postgraduate degrees that range from industry-oriented, practice-based training to more academic degrees. We combine a long-standing record of excellence in teaching and training with an outstanding research portfolio, routinely winning awards from a wide range of bodies.  

This reputation was recognised in the 2021 Research Excellence Framework where we were ranked 2nd in the UK for the quality of our journalism, media and communications research.  

Our lectures are delivered by a diverse teaching team of established academics and industry leaders who also regularly contribute expert opinion and commentary about research and topical news events to the national media.

We are also fully committed to supporting, developing and promoting equality and diversity in all of our practices and activities. We offer an inclusive culture with a range of support services for students with disabilities and learning difficulties. 
 

Salary Range Min.51,039
Salary Range Max.

55,755

Job CategoryAcademic - Teaching & Research
Grade

Grade 7