Research Outputs – Olasunkanmi Arowolo

Peer-Reviewed Journal Articles

Journalism Ethics: The Dilemma, Social and Contextual Constraints
L. Oso, R. Adeniran, O. Arowolo
Cogent Social Sciences 10(1), 2328388 | Citations: 6 | Year: 2024

Summary: Journalism, with its claim to professionalism, is guided in its practice by ethical codes which prescribe what is considered ‘good work’. This theoretical article argues that, though based on certain universal prescriptions, ethics is socially and culturally situated. The observance of the codes is socially determined based on the prevailing moral and political conditions. It is also argued that the issue of the type and quality of representations available in the media should also be of concern when we discuss ethics. The article discusses some of the social constraints to the observance of ethics within the Nigerian context and argues for the need to pay greater attention to addressing the material and economic barriers to media access and representation.

Visual Portrayal of Monkeypox Outbreak on BBC: Is Western Media Biased Against Africa?
OA Shodipe, O. Arowolo, et al.
Global Knowledge, Memory and Communication | Citations: - | Year: 2024

Summary: This paper aims to examine the British Broadcasting Corporation’s (BBC) portrayal of the May 2022 Monkeypox outbreak in the West. The Monkeypox outbreak and the outcry from African journalists on some Western media outlets’ use of black people to portray the Monkeypox outbreak informed the present study to investigate, through empirical evidence, whether Western media portrays Africa negatively.

World Bank Concept of Good Governance, Contemporary Nigerian Democracy, and the Place of the Media.

S.O. Arowolo, K. Yusuf, J. Yahya, O. Lambo, D. Oduolowu
East African Journal of Interdisciplinary Studies 6(2), 54–69 | Citations: - | Year: 2023

Summary: This article presents a conceptual argument on good governance from the World Bank’s and other relevant experts’perspectives. For good governance to be achieved in an effective manner, it is essential for all parties to play a relevant role, including individuals, the general public, the government, and the news media.Also, several factors contribute to good governance, these include accountability, equity, and justice, protection of life and properties, upholding the rule of law, amongst others. The mass media is regarded to be the greatest backbone of democracy and the most effective tool for investigating, informing, and educating the public on issues that are important to the everyday lives of the citizenry, to enhance participation, and ultimately for Nigeria to achieve adequate good governance. Thus, this paper recommends that to effectively achieve good governance, there is a need for absolute resolve and the willingness to change our mindset, way of life as well as partisan-media dynamics.

Online Newspaper Coverage of the 8th National Assembly in Nigeria
H. Suleiman, K. Adedeji, S.O. Arowolo
Media and Communication Review 5(1), 57–83 | Citations: 1 | Year: 2020

Summary: The study analysed online coverage of Nigeria's 100-day legislature in Punch and The Sun newspapers using content analysis and interviews. Findings highlighted the prominence of the 8th National Assembly in homepage stories, with the main sources being in-house reporters, and a neutral tone of coverage.

                   

Politics of Nigerian Newspaper Coverage of Ondo State 2012 Gubernatorial Election
I.T. Asomba, S.O. Arowolo
Media and Communication Review 3(1), 85–109 | Citations: 2 | Year: 2018

Summary: This study analysed 30 editions of The Nation and Nigeria Compass Newspapers around the election period (Jun 14-28, 2014), chosen for their ownership structure and political affiliation. Results showed sensational reporting and prioritisation of slander, indicating owner influence, disrupts newsroom objectivity.

Uses and Gratification Theory and Tobacco Advertising Necessity: An Exposé
S.O. Arowolo
International Journal of Broadcasting and Information Technology 3(1) | Citations: - | Year: 2015

Summary:

Book Chapters / Edited Volumes

3Ws: The Social Composition of News in Selected Nigerian Newspapers

L. Oso, J. Jimoh, S.O. Arowolo
Tambari: Journal of Media, Theatre and Communication Studies | Year: 2022

Text Language: A Revolution in Modern Communication

S.O. Arowolo, O.W. Animashaun
Book in Honour of Prof. Lai Oso, LASU | Year: 2020

The challenges and implications of health journalism practice in Nigeria newspapers

L. Oso, R. Adeniran, S.O. Arowolo
Mass Media in Nigeria: Research, Theories, and Practice | Year: 2019

Commercialisation and Tabloidisation: Journalism as Infotainment 
S.O. Arowolo, L. Oso
Beyond Fun: Media Entertainment, Politics and Development in Nigeria | Year: 2019

In Search of an Elusive Ideal: The Socio-Political Context of Journalistic Objectivity
L. Oso, S.O. Arowolo
Mass Communication: Education and Practice in Nigeria | Year: 2018

Conference Papers / Technical Reports

Damilola Oduolowu & Arowolo, S. Olasunkanmi (May 2025)
“Communicating Climate Change in Africa: Role Perception and Role Shifting Among Environmental Journalists in Nigeria”
– Presented at the Public Communication of Science and Technology (PCST) 2025 Conference, theme: Using Science Communication to Effect Positive Change, University of Aberdeen

Arowolo, S. Olasunkanmi (March 2024)
“Harnessing the Fourth Estate: News Media as Catalyst for Effective Social Investment Policies Implementation”
– Presented at the AEJMC Midwinter Conference (Political Communication Division), Gaylord College of Journalism and Mass Communication, University of Oklahoma, Norman, OK, USA.

Arowolo, S. Olasunkanmi & Damilola Oduolowu (March 2024)
“Cross-Border Perspectives: A Comparative Thematic Analysis of Local Governance Discourse in US and UK Online Community News”
– Presented at the 49th Annual AEJMC Southeast Colloquium, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY, USA.

Oso, L. & Arowolo, S. Olasunkanmi (September 2018)
“Hate Speech and Negotiating Meaning”
– Presented at the 5th ACSPN Annual Conference, Hate Speech, Fake News and Political Stability in Africa, Asaba, Nigeria.

Arowolo, S. Olasunkanmi & Akano, M. M. (September 2018)
“New Media and Attitude of Students Towards Online Shopping: A Case of Jumia.ng”
– Presented at the MCIT 2018 International Conference, Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD), Ekiti State, Nigeria.

Biobaku, M. O., Arowolo, S. O., Odesanya, L. A., & Fatonji, S. (2018)
“Influence of ‘The Lion of Bourdillon’ Documentary on the Voting Intentions of Lagos Electorates in Nigeria’s 2015 General Elections”
– Presented at the 2018 Press Freedom Day Conference, [Location TBD].

Ogundoyin, S. O. & Arowolo, S. O. (2018)
“Media Advocacy Theory: A Content Analysis of Media Coverage of Nigerians' Migration to Europe via Libya”
– Presented at the 2018 ACCE National Conference, National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN), Abuja, Nigeria.

Oso, L., Jimoh, J., & Arowolo, O. S. (September 2017)
“3Ws: The Social Composition of News in Selected Nigerian Newspapers”
– Presented at the Association of Communication Scholars and Professionals of Nigeria (ACSPN) Conference, Bayero University, Kano (BUK), Nigeria.

Suleiman, H. B., Arowolo, O. S., & Olona, K. A. (September 2016)
“Legislative Reporting in Nigeria: Online Newspaper 100 Days Coverage of the 8th National Assembly Resolution”
– Presented at the Ebenezer Soola Conference on Communication Change Management and Sustainable Development, University of Ibadan, Nigeria.

Thesis and Dissertation Projects

PhD Thesis (2025 – University of Kent)
“Poverty, Politics, and the Press: Uncovering the Complexities of Media Coverage on Nigeria’s Social Investment Programmes”

Investigates media framing and public discourse surrounding Nigeria’s social welfare schemes (e.g. GEEP (Tradermoni, Marketmoni, Farmermoni), CCT, HGSF)

Focuses on journalism, governance, and poverty representation across mainstream media and digital platforms.

Master’s Thesis (2019 – Lagos State University)
“Framing of President Muhammadu Buhari's UK Medical Vacation by Nigerian Newspapers”

Explores political communication, press framing, and media bias in coverage of elite health tourism.

Undergraduate Project (2015 – Lagos State University)
“Tabloidization in the Nigerian Press: A Quantitative Investigation into Changes in Nigerian Newspapers, 2003–2013”

Analyses shifts toward infotainment, soft news, and sensationalism in Nigerian journalism. 

Working Papers & Digital Publications

Understanding Framing Theory
S.O. Arowolo
ResearchGate / DOI: https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.25800.52482 | Citations: 205 | Year: 2017

An Exposition on Framing Theory
S.O. Arowolo
Unpublished, Lagos State University | Citations: 20 | Year: 2017

Media Audience: The Unending Swing of the Pendulum
S.O. Arowolo
Social Learning | Year: 2017

