Olasunkanmi AROWOLO
Chatham, Kent, United Kingdom
olasunkanmiarowolo@gmail.com | oa@olaarowolo.com 
+44 (0)7487 397751

Career Profile
I am a dependable and creative scholar with over six years of international teaching experience with a proven academic record, publication experience, and practical expertise. With a passion for teaching and research, I bring a wealth of knowledge and skills to the classroom, combined with a dedication to providing a safe and engaging learning environment for students in the absence of their regular teachers. My resourcefulness and innovation, along with my strong communication and interpersonal abilities, enable me to effectively manage classroom activities and maintain high standards of academic excellence.

Career Objective
To obtain a challenging position as a Cover Teacher/Cover Supervisor in a reputable educational institution where I can effectively utilize my teaching skills, classroom management abilities, and passion for education to provide students with a safe and stimulating learning environment in the absence of their regular teachers, while also enhancing my professional development and contributing to the overall success of the school.
Education and qualifications 
2021 – June 2024 	PhD in Journalism, Centre for Journalism, University of Kent, England.
2019 	Master of Science, Communication Studies, School of Communication, Lagos State University, Nigeria.
2015	B.Sc. (Honours) Mass Communication, School of Communication, Lagos State University, Nigeria.
Work experience

December 2023 – date	Teacher Active 
Role: Cover Supervisor
Responsibilities: In this role, my primary responsibilities included ensuring a secure learning environment, conducting pre-established lessons, maintaining pupil discipline, collaborating with fellow staff members, and effectively communicating with students, staff, and parents.

Subjects covered include Media, Design and Technology, English, Arts, History

Schools that I have covered are: 
Rainham-Mark Grammar School, Rainham, Kent, England.
Chatham Grammar School, Chatham Kent, England
Dartford College of Science and Technology, Dartford, Kent, England.
Greenacres School, Walderslade, Kent, England.

Sept. 13, ‘22 – Aug 2023	Centre for Journalism, University of Kent, Chatham, United Kingdom.
Role: Assistant Lecturer,
Responsibilities: Develop and deliver teaching for the 15-credit Studying Journalism module (JOUR4050) 
Teaching and Scholarship: Develop and deliver own teaching materials for seminar groups; Write handouts and other basic learning support materials; Set and mark assignments including assessing student progress and providing feedback to students; Reflect on practice and the development of own teaching and learning skills; Contribute to the planning of teaching programmes; Plan own day-to-day activity within the framework of the agreed programme.  
Communication and teamwork: Collaborate with academic colleagues on course development and curriculum changes; attend and contribute to subject group meetings.  
Pastoral care: Act as a mentor for students in the capacity of personal tutor. Use listening, interpersonal, and pastoral care skills to deal with sensitive issues concerning students and provide support; Refer students as appropriate to services providing further help. 
Work environment: Required to be aware of the risks in the work environment and their potential impact on their own work and that of others. 
Continuous professional development: possess sufficient breadth or depth of specialist knowledge in the discipline and be developing further skills in and knowledge of teaching.

March 2022 – June ‘23	Kent Teaching Solution Agency 
Role: Cover Teacher
Responsibilities: Providing a safe and secure learning environment for pupils, delivering pre-planned lessons, managing pupil behaviour, liaising with other staff members, communicating effectively, following school policies and procedures, providing feedback to the regular teacher, ensuring the health and safety of pupils, and providing support to pupils with special educational needs and disabilities.
 
Role: Cover Supervisor
Responsibilities: In this capacity, I provided a safe learning environment, delivering pre-planned lessons, managing pupil behaviour, liaising with other staff, and communicating effectively with pupils, staff, and parents.

Subjects covered include Media, English, Arts, Music, History, Science, Business, Computing, Health, and Social Care

Schools that I have covered are: 
The Victory Academy, Chatham, Kent, England.
Walderslade Girls' School, Walderslade, Kent, England.
Brompton Academy, Gillingham, Kent, England. 
Westlands School, Sittingbourne, Kent, England.
Rivermead School, Gillingham, Kent, England.
The North School, Ashford, Kent, England.
Valley Park School, Maidstone, Kent, England
Cornwallis Academy, Maidstone, Kent, England
Thamesview School, Gravesend, Kent, England
Aylesford School, Aylesford, Kent, England

June ‘18 – May 2021	Assistant Lecturer, Department of Journalism, School of Communication, Lagos State University 
Responsibilities 
The development of appropriate teaching materials, the supervision of practical work, and the provision of advice on skills, methods, and techniques to aid in the transfer of knowledge are all activities that fall under the category of teaching, research, and student assessment. 

Courses taught includes:
MAC 215: Introduction to Photography and Photo-Journalism
MAC 308: Photo Editing
MAC 319: Photo-Journalism Management
MAC 206: News Writing and Reporting
MAC 311: Newspaper and Magazine Production


Licenses, trainings, and certification
August 12, 2022		Graphics Design Foundations: Typography, Linkedin Learning
July 20, 2022		Thinking Creatively
June 11, 2022		UX Design: 4 Ideation
June 10, 2022		Design Thinking: Understanding the Process
June 9, 2022		Create a Brand Strategy
March 30, 2022		Making Decisions
May 26, 2020		Logo Design – Design a Logo in Photoshop for beginners
May 17, 2020		Social Media Marketing & Digital Marketing [facilitated by Udemy]

Volunteering and leadership experience
2018 – date	Director of Photography, OA MediaKraft 
2017 – 2021	Business Manager, Media, and Communication Review: Journal of the School of Communication, Lagos State University, Ojo, Lagos, Nigeria.
2018 – 2021	Member, Student Help Desk Committee, School of Communication, Lagos State University, Ojo, Lagos, Nigeria.
2012 – 2013 	Chairman, Editorial Board/Vice President (Editorial), Association of Campus Journalist, Lagos State University Chapter (ACJ-LASU)
’15 – Oct. ’15	Provost, NYSC Media CDS Group, Irewole Local Government, Ikire, Osun State
Oct. ’15 – Nov. ‘15	Acting President, NYSC Media CDS Group, Irewole Local	Government, Ikire, Osun State.
Nov. ’15 – April ‘16	President, NYSC Media CDS Group, Irewole Local Government, Ikire, Osun State
Key skills

 
•	Programming and Software Development
•	HTML, CSS and JavaScript Coding
•	Microsoft Office & Apps
•	Google Docs
•	Canva
•	Adobe Express
•	Adobe Photoshop
•	Adobe InDesign
•	Adobe Illustrator
•	Adobe Lightroom
•	Adobe Acrobat
•	Adobe Premiere Pro
•	Davinci Resolve 
•	Figma 
•	CorelDraw Suite
•	Typography
•	Final cut 
•	Microsoft PowerPoint
•	OBS software 

 

Interests and activities
Currently include	Ui/Ux Designs, Filming, Photography, Writing, Board Games, Cycling, Running, Gym Training, Live Streaming
References
Available on request
