Docking Station
Due to open in late 2026, Docking Station will harness the transformative power of creative technology to open up new possibilities and futures for young people and the communities of Kent and Medway.

A digital future for Medway
Docking Station is an exciting new facility for Medway and for creative industries in the South East. 

It will restore a historic building at the Historic Dockyard Chatham into a unique hub providing industry-standard production technologies including virtual production and motion capture enabling local businesses, students and communities to develop new skills in immersive technologies and supporting the digital creative industries in Medway and the region.

iCCi and University of Kent are developing Docking Station, in partnership with Medway Council and the Chatham Historic Dockyard Trust.

A new space for industry, research and community
Docking Station will offer state-of-the-art digital production studios including LED volume, motion capture, volumetric capture and photogrammetry for students, businesses, and local people. There will be flexible teaching spaces, co-working areas, performance and exhibition spaces all woven into a programme of public events and community engagement. It will be a new bridge between academia, industry and the community.

Docking Station aims to put Medway at the forefront of research and innovation into digital immersive experiences.    

Regeneration in Medway
Located between the University’s Pembroke campus and its Historic Dockyard premises, this development will place cultural and creative industries at the heart of the regeneration plans for the last remaining undeveloped part of the former Dockyard site. 

Docking Station will address the income, productivity and skills levelling-up challenges faced in Medway, make a visible impact on Medway’s cultural regeneration and provide the facilities and skills development opportunities to support digital innovation within the creative industries sector.

