THE UK’S MODERN
INDUSTRIAL
STRATEGY
CP 1337
CP 1337
THE UK’S MODERN
INDUSTRIAL
STRATEGY
Presented to Parliament
by the Secretary of State for Business and Trade
by Command of His Majesty
Department for Business and Trade
June 2025
© Crown copyright 2025
This publication is licensed under the terms of the Open Government Licence v3.0
except where otherwise stated. To view this licence, visit
nationalarchives.gov.uk/doc/open-government-licence/version/3.
Where we have identified any third party copyright information you will need to obtain
permission from the copyright holders concerned.
This publication is available at www.gov.uk/official-documents.
Any enquiries regarding this publication should be sent to us at
enquiries@businessandtrade.gov.uk.
ISBN 978-1-5286-5834-8
E03387012 06/25
Printed on paper containing 40% recycled fibre content minimum
Printed in the UK by HH Associates Ltd. on behalf of the Controller of His Majesty’s
Stationery Office
Contents
7 Foreword
10 Executive Summary
16 Introduction
26 Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business
94 Supporting the UK’s city regions and clusters
114 Supporting our frontier industries
146 Creating an enduring partnership with business
5
6 Industrial Strategy
The Rt Hon Sir Keir Starmer
KCB KC MP
Prime Minister
The Rt Hon Rachel Reeves MP
Chancellor of the Exchequer
The world is in a new era. It is more volatile, with
new threats to our security and living standards.
But it is also a world of enormous and exciting
possibility. Technological advances in Life
Sciences, Clean Energy, and Artificial Intelligence
are profoundly reshaping our economy, with
the potential for enormous advances in our
productivity and way of life. The UK is well
positioned to take advantage. We are open,
entrepreneurial and - as recent deals show - an
unashamed champion of global trade. Our finance
industry, universities and scientific institutions
are all world-leading. And, having restored our
international standing, we now offer investors
political stability in this uncertain world.
Through our Plan for Change, the Government is
determined to seize the opportunities this new world
offers to deliver security, renewal, and higher living
standards across the country. Business-as-usual will not
work. We need a new relationship between business and
government, where government provides the strategic
certainty that allows businesses to do what they do best:
create wealth. This requires a more muscular approach
to government: one prepared to back British businesses,
invest in our comparative advantage, and take punts in
pursuit of growth and productivity. And this government
understands the importance of agility and enterprise; to
Foreword
The Rt Hon
Jonathan Reynolds MP
Secretary of State for Business
and Trade and President of
the Board of Trade
Foreword 7
relentlessly ask whether regulations are
blocking the conditions for Britain to thrive.
For too long Britain has had a state which,
paradoxically, both stands back and
interferes too much. When our industries
were at the mercy of change, too many
people and communities were left to fend
for themselves, with government
uninterested in providing a bridge to the
future. Yet equally, when new opportunities
present themselves, Britain often finds itself
too regulated to take advantage, or too
cautious to change course. The result is a
state that is both over-bearing and feeble,
poorly serving an economy that has
become too reliant on one place, too
exposed to global volatility and too
sluggish to take advantage of transitions
like the move to homegrown clean energy.
Our modern Industrial Strategy provides a
new approach for a new era. It is robust,
strategic, and unashamedly long-term: a
10-year plan to make the UK the best
country to invest in anywhere in the world.
Building on Invest 2035, the Green Paper
published last October, it is also a plan
born of partnership. We have looked at
every aspect of the business environment
to make it easier and quicker for highgrowth businesses to invest. We have
looked at the places across the UK where
these sectors are concentrated and
identified how to unlock their potential.
We have looked at the international
landscape to find the most significant
trading opportunities we can exploit. And
we have looked at government itself, to
turn the state into the best possible partner
for mobilising enterprise support.
In short, it represents nothing less than a
whole-government effort, with ambitious
plans for eight high growth sectors. These
sectors have been identified as those best
placed to create the wealth, jobs, and
higher wages our country needs in every
community. Their success is absolutely
essential for delivering our Plan for
Change. This document sets out the
support we will provide.
Throughout this process, businesses, trade
unions, and other stakeholders have
engaged every step of the way and we are
grateful for their partnership. Now,
together, we can build the proud, highskilled, economically vibrant, and fairer
country that working people want. An
Industrial Strategy capable, not only of
delivering the security and renewal people
need. But a long-term plan to get Britain’s
future back.
8 Industrial Strategy
Foreword 9
Executive
Summary
The United Kingdom is a thriving global economy
founded on stability, fairness, and the rule of
law, and propelled by world-leading sectors and
companies. We have a record of extraordinary
research and innovation; we are champions of
openness and free trade; and we continue to be
a magnet for international talent and capital.
Yet in recent decades the pace and magnitude of
global change have escalated and the UK has been
short of the dynamism it takes to stay ahead.
The global trading environment has become more
unpredictable, the fragility of global supply chains
more apparent, and our economic competitors have
been more assertive and disruptive in promoting their
national industries. British workers and families have
paid the price through a cost-of-living crisis.
Now more than ever, businesses are seeking out
countries that can provide them with the confidence
to invest and grow. As set out in the Plan for Change,
the Government’s priority mission is to deliver strong,
secure, and sustainable economic growth to boost
living standards for working people in every
part of the UK.
10 Industrial Strategy
Our modern Industrial Strategy will
help us seize the most significant
opportunities and create the most
favourable conditions in key UK
sectors for the companies of the
future to emerge here – the ones
that have a transformative role to
play in the clean energy transition,
the tech revolution, the
fundamental impact of AI on every
sector, and the new geopolitics.
To achieve this, the Government is
focused on the critical need to
increase business investment,
capturing a greater share of
internationally mobile capital,
spurring domestic businesses to
scale up, and supporting small and
medium-sized businesses reliant on
resilient supply-chains. This is about
positive choices: backing eight
sectors (the IS-8) with the highest
potential, and the frontier industries
at their leading edge – and
targeting the places and clusters
across the UK that support those
sectors, to increase national
productivity, strengthen our
economic security and resilience,
and support our environmental
goals and the net zero transition.
To ensure the Industrial Strategy
drives action we will track key
measures of improvement across
the whole economy, the IS-8, and
places: business investment, Gross
Value Added (GVA), labour market
outcomes such as employment and
wages; productivity growth; and
exports. We will also track the
number of new large ‘homegrown’
business across the IS-8. The
Industrial Strategy and Sector Plans
are underpinned by a robust
monitoring and evaluation
approach tracking the delivery of its
policies, overseen by the Industrial
Strategy Advisory Council (ISAC).
Invest 2035, our consultation,
showed clearly where action must
be taken, and how we need to
shape the most globally competitive
offer to business. The Industrial
Strategy is not about a particular
point in time or publication – it is a
10-year commitment and
partnership. The Government has
already started to take action on
the issues raised by the eight sectors
– from addressing the burden of
regulation to the speed of planning
– and we will go further in the
critical areas identified, both
immediately and in the months and
years ahead.
Executive Summary 11
1. As an integral part of the growth
mission, the Government will make it
easier and simpler for companies to do
business, giving them the stability to
make long-term investments. We will do
this by easing the investor journey, and
tackling the blockers that undermine
confidence and stop them investing in
the UK’s future growth. In
particular, we will:
i) Tackle high industrial electricity
costs, ensure strategic investment
projects receive timely grid
connections, invest in clean energy,
and strengthen our connections to
the EU energy market.
ii) Promote free and fair trade through
strong international partnerships,
including securing new and
improved trading arrangements
with a pragmatic, agile, smart and
fair approach to navigating a
fragmented, geopolitically volatile,
and tech-driven world.
iii) Strengthen our economic security
through our uplift in defence
spending, international
collaboration, strategic investments
in critical supply chains,
technologies, and energy security,
and support to businesses in
understanding and mitigating risks.
iv) Expand access to finance, building
on the commercial expertise of the
market through the British Business
Bank (with increased capacity and
capability, and £4 billion additional
capital for the IS-8); expanding the
mandate of the National Wealth
Fund to deploy its £27.8 billion
capitalisation to support growth;
and bringing forward legislation to
increase the maximum size of UK
Export Finance’s financial portfolio.
v) Drive innovation, underpinned by
an £86 billion investment into UK
R&D, targeted towards the IS-8,
leveraging private investment in
cutting-edge research,
technologies, and commercial
applications.
vi) Capitalise on the value of UK data
by treating it as an economic asset,
enabling the use of high-quality
data across the private and public
sectors, extending Smart Data
initiatives into relevant Industrial
Strategy sectors, and establishing a
clear framework to value and
license public sector data assets.
vii) Enhance skills and increase access
to talent by reforming the skills and
employment support system to
create a strong pipeline into the
IS-8, with opportunities for good
jobs across the country; an increase
in technology training and boosts
for engineering, digital, and defence
skills; and a visa system and new
Global Talent Taskforce that
supports high-growth sectors and
attracts talented individuals to
the UK.
viii) Reduce regulatory burdens and
speed innovation, cutting the
administrative costs of regulation
for business by 25%, reducing the
number of regulators, using the
Regulatory Innovation Office to
clear the path to market for the
latest innovative challenger
12 Industrial Strategy
products, and making specific
changes for sectors to support
business investment.
ix) Remove planning barriers and give
our backing to transformative
infrastructure projects, including by
fast-tracking decisions on critical
projects in the planning system.
x) Ensure our tax system supports
growth and high-growth sectors,
with our Corporate Tax Roadmap
published at Autumn Budget 2024,
having set out our commitment to
cap our Corporate Tax Rate at 25%
and maintain other key features,
such as Full Expensing.
2. The Government will enable investment
and growth in city regions and clusters
across the UK where the IS-8 are based,
with a coherent offer across nations and
regions. In particular, we will:
i) Proactively bring forward more
investible sites across the UK
through a new £600 million
Strategic Sites Accelerator;
coordinated support to attract
investment into our Industrial
Strategy Zones (Investment Zones
and Freeports); and new AI
Growth Zones.
ii) Strengthen local business
environments across the UK with
increased support for regional
innovation (through the new
£500 million Local Innovation
Partnerships Fund) and skills, while
offering the expertise of the
Office for Investment, National
Wealth Fund, and British Business
Bank to help places attract
private investment.
iii) Renew our partnerships in Scotland,
Wales, and Northern Ireland,
including through close
collaboration with devolved
governments and through flagship
sectoral investments, such as
supporting the Acorn CCUS project
in Scotland and providing up to
£750 million for the University of
Edinburgh supercomputer.
iv) Support Mayors and local
authorities in England, including by
working together on the delivery of
10-year Local Growth Plans and
making a new £500 million Mayoral
Recyclable Growth Fund available
to invest in local growth projects.
v) Strengthen connections between
and within our city regions and
clusters to ensure that more
businesses are pulled into the orbit
of the best UK talent, innovation,
and academic collaboration, and
more people have access to good
jobs. We will support a growth
corridor across our Northern city
regions, deepen our support for the
Oxford to Cambridge Growth
Corridor, and build links between
and within other cities, regions, and
nations through projects such as
HS2, new rail upgrades in Wales,
and support for the EdinburghGlasgow Central Belt.
Executive Summary 13
3. While these interventions were most
frequently raised by some or all of the
eight sectors (IS-8) as the most pressing
issues, the Government is taking
targeted action to transform our
highest-potential sectors over the next
decade through Sector Plans. As major
initiatives we will:
i) Harness the latest technologies in
the Advanced Manufacturing sector
through £4.3 billion in funding,
including up to £2.8 billion in R&D
programmes over the next 5 years
to spur innovation, automation,
digitisation and commercialisation.
ii) Drive the growth of our worldleading Creative Industries in
clusters across the UK, including
through a £150 million Creative
Places Growth Fund, new financial
support for screen, music, and video
games, and a new Creative Content
Exchange to be a trusted
marketplace for selling, buying,
licensing, and enabling permitted
access to digitised cultural and
creative assets.
iii) Make the UK one of the world’s top
three Life Sciences economies
through a package of reforms and
investment, including up to
£600 million for a Health Data
Research Service to create the
world’s most advanced, secure, and
AI-ready health data platform.
iv) Become a Clean Energy
manufacturing and innovation
superpower, producing the next
generation of technologies to
support the global transition, and
delivering our Clean Energy
Superpower Mission.
v) Deliver the Defence industrial base
we need to protect our national
security while unlocking the sector’s
significant untapped potential for
creating growth spillover benefits
through innovation, exports,
and scale-ups.
vi) Nurture the UK’s Digital and
Technologies economy responsible
for building our sovereign capability
in the most strategically important
areas, £670 million to drive the
development and adoption of
quantum computers in the UK,
£500 million delivered through the
Sovereign AI Unit, and a new
programme of AI Growth Zones.
vii) Increase tech adoption and AI
integration in the Professional and
Business Services sector, including
expansion of the Made Smarter
scheme, as part of a package of
£150 million to support the sector.
viii) Maintain and grow the UK as the
world’s leading Financial Services
hub, including by rebalancing to
regulate for growth, cutting red
tape for FinTech firms and driving
forward initiatives to open up more
private capital.
ix) Strengthening the resilience of all
the IS-8 by supporting the
foundational industries and their
supply chains which provide vital
materials and parts, from steel to
14 Industrial Strategy
chemicals, or manage essential
infrastructure, from ports to
electricity networks.
4. We will create an enduring partnership
between business and a stronger, more
capable, and more agile state, with far
deeper penetration of business
expertise and understanding of
companies’ needs. In particular, we will:
i) Attract private capital and build
partnerships through active coinvestment with industry on shared
priorities, using all of our finance
levers to de-risk opportunities,
incentivise investment, and upskill
the workforce.
ii) Use government’s procurement
power to strengthen domestic
supply chains and support goodquality local jobs, while shaping
markets for innovation in the
longer term.
iii) Make it easier for industry to
navigate government, speeding up
investment decision-making and
improving the interface with
business through a high-calibre
concierge service in the Office for
Investment, a growth-focused
international network, and a new
approach to placements
with industry.
iv) Support small and medium-sized
businesses with a new Business
Growth Service to streamline access
to government support, advice, and
funding; initiatives to tackle the
issue of late payments from large
suppliers; and procurement reforms
to make it easier to secure
government contracts.
v) Establish strong institutions to
retain an unswerving focus on
Industrial Strategy outcomes in
policy-making and delivery,
including through a permanent
Industrial Strategy Council.
vi) Continuously monitor and evaluate
the effectiveness of our policy
interventions and industry’s
commitments, with clear metrics
and the agility to take action
if we need to.
This is a very significant agenda, with
considerable work to do not only by
government, but the business
community, local and national leaders
across the UK, and trade unions. It is an
approach to which the Government is
fundamentally committed, as it seeks to
place private business,
entrepreneurship, and innovation at the
heart of the UK’s renewal, and which will
see it play a strategic, active role
beyond supporting the fundamentals of
rule of law and macroeconomic stability.
That is the point of our modern
Industrial Strategy, and through it we
will create a partnership between
government, businesses and workers not
just for a decade but beyond, working
together confidently to create the
conditions for sustained and long-term
growth across our economy and
throughout our nations.
Executive Summary 15
Introduction
As set out in the Plan for Change, the
Government’s priority mission is to deliver
strong, secure, and sustainable economic
growth to boost living standards for working
people in every part of the UK. Growth will put
more money in people’s pockets, fund our public
services, and revitalise our communities.
Growth is all the more important in a changing world
that is increasingly volatile, dangerous, and insecure.
This is the new normal – the world is not going back.
But far from being daunted by this change,
businesses, investors, and trade unions have told us
of their confidence in the UK and urged us that now
is the time to seize the moment.
The opportunities ahead of us are profound and
exciting. Technology is transforming what is possible
in every walk of life. The revolutionary potential of AI
has barely begun to be realised. The net zero
transition, the economic opportunity of the century,
is reshaping global markets and driving innovation.
The UK starts from a position of strength. We are an
oasis of stability, trusted for our pragmatism and
common sense. Our world-leading universities, skilled
workforce, legal and regulatory frameworks, tech
ecosystem, and content creators have enabled the
emergence of thriving, internationally
competitive UK sectors.
16 Industrial Strategy
But business-as-usual will not be enough to
succeed. The approaches of recent
decades have not worked. Industries at the
epicentre of transformation, and the
workers and communities that depend on
them, need the state to be an active
partner. When opportunities have
presented themselves, the UK has too often
found itself too over-regulated and overburdened to take advantage, and too
cautious to change course.
In an uncertain world, industry needs
certainty to invest. Our strategy of stability,
investment, and reform has already begun
to address this and realise the full potential
of all our sectors.
• Restoring stability. At Autumn Budget
2024, the Government introduced new
fiscal rules to put the public finances
back on a stable path.1 This stability has
given the Bank of England the
confidence to cut interest rates four
times in the last year, which will support
growth and investment. The
Government is also continuing to work
with our international partners,
including in the G7, International
Monetary Fund, and World Bank to
navigate shared challenges and
maintain stability in the global economy.
• Investing in renewal. At Autumn Budget
2024, the Government increased the
capital envelope by over £100 billion,
and by a further £13 billion over the
same period at Spring Statement 2025.
Taken together, the Government is
investing an additional £120 billion over
the Spending Review period, compared
with the plans set out at Spring Budget
2024. This has enabled substantial new
capital investment, with £39 billion for a
new 10-year Affordable Homes
Programme, £14.2 billion for Sizewell C
– the first state-funded nuclear power
station since 1988 - £22.6 billion a year
for R&D by 2029/30, and £15.6 billion in
long-term transport settlements for
Mayors of some of England’s largest city
regions.2
 In addition, as set out in the
10-Year Infrastructure Strategy, the
Government is funding at least
£725 billion of social and economic
infrastructure over the next decade, so
that funding continues to grow in line
with inflation after the Spending
Review period.3
• Driving reform. The Government is
accelerating infrastructure delivery and
house-building through ambitious
planning reforms. Our Action Plan
setting out the Government’s approach
to regulation and regulators will ensure
that the system not only protects
consumers but also supports
competition and encourages investment
and innovation. We are creating a level
playing field and modernising the world
of work through our plan to Make Work
Pay, which forms a core part of our
mission to raise living standards and
ensure growth creates opportunities for
all. And we are empowering local
communities and leaders, including
through the English Devolution Bill, so
they have the powers and funding they
need to deliver their Local
Growth Plans.4
Introduction 17
Supporting our
highest-potential sectors
Our modern Industrial Strategy is
a critical part of how we deliver our
growth mission: creating good jobs
and higher incomes across the country
by increasing productive business
investment through targeted industrial
policies. This means addressing the
leading causes of the UK’s low growth
by making a deliberate choice to
focus on sectors with the greatest
potential to raise national levels of
investment and productivity, spread
prosperity to all parts of the country,
make us all more secure, and seize the
opportunities of net zero. This is how
we create a strong economy, delivering
better jobs that offer security, fair pay
and opportunities to progress.
The need for a targeted, long-term plan for
the highest-growth sectors is clear. The top
30% of sectors ranked by productivity in
1997 accounted for roughly 60% of all
productivity growth between 1997 and
2022.5
 Even more so now, we live in a world
dominated by the rise of superstar firms,
whose success spills over to the wider
economy. These are the firms that are
capable of growing rapidly from
challengers into world-leaders, their growth
journey fuelled by innovation, disruption,
tech adoption, effective use of data,
globally integrated supply chains, export
opportunities, and investment in skills,
equipment, software, and other assets.
But the UK does not have a strong record in
incubating such superstars. For too long our
levels of business investment have been the
lowest of the most advanced economies.6
Market dynamism, shifting resources from
lower to higher productivity firms, was once
the largest component of UK growth.7
However, dynamism is now lacking, with
businesses expanding more slowly and new
roles being recreated at a slower rate.8
And outside London, our city regions –
traditionally engines of growth in other
countries – are falling short of their
economic potential.9
 This is an over
£90 billion gap: fixing it requires creating
the market conditions for new entrants to
emerge and investors to take risks.10
Through the Industrial Strategy we will
create a more dynamic economy that
revives the UK’s success and grows the next
generation of challenger British companies
that can drive growth, support jobs of the
future, and underpin our sovereignty. Our
aim is to cultivate competitive markets and
reduce barriers to entry across the UK, so
that firms can start up and scale into
18 Industrial Strategy
businesses capable of anchoring supply
chains, occupying critical niches in global
value chains and networks, and producing
the products the world needs in a crisis – all
ultimately increasing our national agency.
This link between agency and prosperity is
not theoretical. It is now a lived reality for
British citizens and businesses. From the
energy shock of 2022, which caused soaring
energy prices, to pandemic-era supply
disruptions, the UK has been exposed.
These disruptions have weakened us
strategically, and left British families paying
the price. As the world navigates a period
of upheaval – driven by great power
competition, climate instability, migration,
and demographic transitions – the
Industrial Strategy must not only stimulate
economic output, it must help the UK
adapt, compete, and endure.
Upheaval in geopolitics is also colliding
with the emergence of advanced AI. The
superstar firms of 2035 will leverage AI, just
as other general-purpose technologies
such as steam or electricity were harnessed
by the superstars of their day. The Industrial
Strategy builds on the AI Opportunities
Action Plan to make the UK an AI maker
rather than an AI taker, developing Britain’s
stake across the AI value chain. It also
sends a message to our eight sectors. The
Government is preparing for the prospect
of transformative AI: business must do too.
The AI revolution is affecting the entire
economy: alongside the opportunities for
new businesses, existing businesses across
the IS-8 must evolve to thrive.
“Our aim is to cultivate
competitive markets and
reduce barriers to entry
across the UK so that
firms can start up and
scale into businesses
capable of anchoring
supply chains, occupying
critical niches in global
value chains and
networks, and producing
the products the world
needs in a crisis – all
ultimately increasing our
national agency.”
Introduction 19
Prioritising business investment
Our Industrial Strategy is a new
relationship between business and
government – a 10-year plan in which
we chart a strategic course that allows
business to make long-term decisions
and focus on creating wealth and
prosperity. Our ambition is for this
partnership to significantly increase
business investment by 2035.
The sectors we are focusing on are the
highly productive, innovative, exporting
sectors whose frontier industries create
strategically important technologies and
services deployed across the economy; and
which support well-paid jobs, with workers
in the IS-8 earning on average £7,900
(before tax) a year more than in other
industries.11 By their nature, these sectors
already have strong growth prospects.
The IS-8 are on average 27.1% more
productive than the UK national average.12
If they stay on their current trajectory, they
will add an extra £152 billion in GVA to the
economy annually, and create 1.1 million
new jobs by 2035.13 The IS-8 also saw their
global export opportunities expand by
$5 trillion between 2013 and 2023, with a
further $10 trillion in growth
forecast by 2035.14
But they have the potential to go much
further. For each sector, building on their
international competitive advantage, we
are setting out concrete plans and making
significant commitments with the ambition
that by 2035:
• The UK’s Advanced Manufacturing
sector will achieve a near doubling
of business investment to
£39 billion per year.
• The UK will be Europe’s leading Defence
exporter, will have closed the gap for
venture capital investment into Defence
with the US by half, and will radically
reduce the time to contract across all
segments of Defence procurements.
• Business investment in frontier Clean
Energy Industries will at least double to
over £30 billion.
• The UK will be the leading European
hub to create, invest in, and scale fastgrowing Digital and Technology
businesses, with £3 of private R&D
investment in the sector for every £1 of
public R&D funding.
• The Creative Industries sector will
significantly increase business
investment to £31 billion.
• The UK will be the location of choice for
Financial Services firms to invest, grow,
and sell their services to the world with
the sector increasing its contribution of
exports to UK GVA.
• The UK will, by 2030, be the leading Life
Sciences economy in Europe; and by
2035, the third most important Life
Sciences economy globally, after the
US and China.
• The Professional and Business Services
sector will double business investment
to £65 billion.
20 Industrial Strategy
Focusing on
implementation
Past UK industrial strategies have
not lasted because they have either
refused to make choices or have failed
to back their choices up by reallocating
resources and driving genuine
behaviour change in both government
and industry.
Our modern Industrial Strategy is a wholeof-government endeavour, designed with
business through sector councils, extensive
consultation, and close engagement with
the Industrial Strategy Advisory Council.
This work has been embedded in the
Government’s approach to SR25, ensuring
that rather than being a single moment in
time, our Industrial Strategy priorities are
hardwired into departments’ budgets for
the rest of this Parliament, alongside 10-
year R&D commitments and
infrastructure plans.
This document is just the start: it will be a
lens through which we view important
decisions now and for the decade to come.
Every department has a critical growth role:
areas from defence spending to clean
energy deployment, from migration to
public procurement, are now linked to our
Industrial Strategy and critical to how
we deliver it.
Introduction 21
Central to our approach will be the
principle that innovation and investment
must be rewarded. The nations that win in
this new era will be those that are prepared
to put their skin in the game to share risk
with innovators and which welcome
productive private investment and the
benefits it brings to working people and
communities.
By aligning government around this
agenda, we will be able to address not just
the unique issues faced by each of the IS-8,
but the critical cross-cutting challenges
which they all face – start-ups, scale-ups,
spin-outs, SMEs, established local firms,
and multinationals alike. This is about
understanding the needs of this wide
variety of businesses, from market leaders
to disruptive challengers; and using all of
our levers to unblock barriers and create
long-term stability so that it is easier and
quicker to invest.
Sectors do not do business in isolation from
the rest of the economy, so we are taking a
holistic approach, with interventions to
strengthen the whole environment around
them and promote the spillover of capital
and innovation between them.
The Industrial Strategy is unashamedly
place-based, recognising that stronger
regional growth is critical for the
competitiveness of the IS-8 and the
resilience of the national economy: we will
therefore focus our efforts on the city
regions and clusters with the highest
potential to support our growth-driving
sectors, in England, Wales, Scotland, and
Northern Ireland. The IS-8’s resilience in an
unpredictable world is also linked to the
strength of foundational industries like steel
and ports which supply critical materials,
parts, and infrastructure – we will ensure
that these are protected from global
headwinds. Just as high-growth sectors will
benefit from a stronger economy, so the
rest of the economy – and the jobs and
communities it supports – will benefit from
their success. The rising tide must lift all
boats, throughout the country.
Across all our interventions, the economic
opportunities of net zero will be a
consistent priority, creating good clean
jobs. We will act strategically to boost green
manufacturing, services, innovation,
exports, and the circular economy,
leveraging British industry to deliver energy
security and meet our environmental goals.
The Industrial Strategy is rooted in the
challenges and opportunities of the next
10 years, including the need to immediately
bolster the UK’s defence and security while
achieving long-term national renewal.
This will create an independent, highskilled, dynamic, and economically
prosperous country, where opportunity,
skills, and wealth abound and are spread
fairly; where jobs are high-quality,
accessible, and secure; and where every
person and every business have the
chance to flourish.
22 Industrial Strategy
Endnotes
1 HM Treasury (2024) Autumn Budget 2024
2 HM Treasury (2025) Spending Review 2025
3 HMT Treasury (2025) UK Infrastructure: A 10 Year Strategy
4 Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government (2024) English
Devolution White Paper
5 Department for Business and Trade analysis of Office for National Statistics (2023)
Output per hour Worked
6 Office for National Statistics (2024) Business investment in the UK. See also The
Productivity Institute (2023) The productivity agenda; Resolution Foundation (2023)
Beyond boosterism.
7 Department for Business and Trade analysis using Office for National Statistics (2022)
Estimates of total factor productivity from the Annual business survey, Great Britain:
1998 to 2019: August 2022
8 Competition and Markets Authority (2024) The state of UK competition
9 Centre for Cities (2024) Climbing the summit: big cities in the UK and the G7
10 Department for Business and Trade analysis of Office for National Statistics (2024)
Subregional productivity: labour productivity indices by city region and Office for
National Statistics (2025) Regional Gross Value Added (balanced) by industry: city and
enterprise regions Figure calculated in 2022 current prices for 2023 levels of
productivity and GVA, by multiplying employment with the difference between UK
average productivity levels and those in the outlined city regions.
11 Department for Business and Trade analysis of Office for National Statistics (2024)
Employee earnings in the UK: 2024 (unrevised) and Employee earnings in the UK, 2011
to 2023 (revised). Figure indicates the difference between the 2024 median real pay
of individuals in the Industrial Strategy sectors (excluding Clean Energy Industries)
and all other sectors in the economy (in full-time employment, entitled to the adult
National Minimum Wage rate, whose earnings were not affected by absences).
Wages were price adjusted using Office for National Statistics (2025) Consumer Price
Index including owner occupiers’ housing costs, indexed to April 2024. See technical
annex for further information on IS-8 sector definitions.
12 Department for Business and Trade analysis of Office for National Statistics data
(2025): Output per job by division; GDP Low-Level Aggregates; Annual Business
Survey, and Inter-Departmental Business Register (IDBR) employment count
microdata. Average calculated using data between 2015 and 2023. Where applicable,
the number of jobs for each SIC code is apportioned using lower-level IDBR
employment count data and GVA is apportioned using lower-level Annual Business
Survey data.
Introduction 23
13 Department for Business and Trade analysis of Office for National Statistics (2025)
GDP low-level aggregates, Non-financial business economy, Employee jobs by
industry, Self-employed jobs by industry, Office for National Statistics (2024) Low
carbon and renewable energy economy, UK: 2022, Office for National Statistics
(2025) IDBR microdata. Projections are based on the compound annual growth rate
between 2019 and 2023. Department for Business and Trade analysis of Office for
National Statistics (2025) GDP Low-Level Aggregates and Annual Business Survey.
Where applicable, GVA is apportioned using lower-level ABS data. GVA projection is
based on the compound annual growth rate between 2019 and 2023, which we
assume is constant.
14 Department for Business and Trade (2025) Global Trade Outlook, forthcoming
publication.
24 Industrial Strategy
Introduction 25
Ease, speed, and
long-term stability
for business
26 Industrial Strategy
For too long the UK’s economy has
been held back by an unsupportive
and rigid business environment that
has not adapted quickly enough
with the changing times. Regulatory
frameworks have not kept pace with
innovation. Digital infrastructure has
been upgraded too slowly, especially
outside major cities. Too few people
are emerging from schools, colleges,
universities, or the wider employment
support system with the skills needed
by the industries of the future.
Competition rules have tended to
benefit incumbents not challengers.
And even high-potential start-ups in
strategically important sectors face
challenges raising capital to continue
their growth journey.
Fortunately the fundamentals remain
strong and the Government’s reforms are
already turning business sentiment around.
The UK rose from fourth place to become
the second-most attractive global
destination for investment in a recent
survey of CEOs.1
 But we must do more to
ensure that improved business sentiment
and confidence translate into increased
investment in the UK, creating jobs,
revitalising communities, and putting more
money in people’s pockets. We cannot
afford to let this opportunity slip to make
the UK’s business environment as progrowth and resilient as possible for our
frontier industries.
This starts with making it easier and quicker
for the IS-8 to invest. There are too many
areas where doing business is harder in the
UK than in our competitors. Every pound
spent – or not spent – because of
uncompetitive electricity prices, planning
delays, or disproportionate regulation is a
pound that could have been spent on
productive investment in strategic longterm assets or capability, from skills
to software.
But improving the business environment
has to be about more than supply-side
reforms. The paradox of the British state in
recent decades is that it has been
overbearing and too distant,
micromanaging through regulatory
burdens but going missing when businesses
needed a partner. We must use the power
of strategic government to provide the
conditions and stability for the IS-8 to take
risks and invest confidently – with greater
dynamism, long-term funding cycles for
research and innovation, a more
competitive and strategic access to finance
offer, skills provision aligned with future
growth priorities, incentives for building
resilience, and more opportunities to sell to
international markets.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 27
Reducing electricity costs,
accelerating grid connections
and promoting industrial
decarbonisation
Industrial electricity prices in the
UK are significantly higher than
those in most competing economies,
particularly throughout Europe and
North America.2
 Energy-intensive
firms paid twice the European average
in electricity costs last year.3
 This
issue is one of the most pronounced
challenges to the competitiveness of
our energy intensive sectors and the
attractiveness of the UK to foreign
investment, albeit gas prices are
comparable to those in the rest of
Europe.4 Compounding the challenge,
some businesses also face long waiting
times for new or reinforced grid
connections – with some told they may
wait a decade.
High electricity prices and grid connection
delays are a barrier to electrification in our
energy-intensive industries and to the
delivery of our net zero commitments.5
Electrified technologies can be far more
efficient than fossil-fuel equivalents,
making firms more productive. They can
also reduce our reliance on fossil fuel
imports, making the UK more resilient to
disruption and price volatility on
international markets. And plentiful, clean
electricity will be crucial for attracting
investment into and from the IS-8.
Respondents to the formal Invest 2035
consultation identified both energy prices
and grid connection delays as barriers to
competitive industrial activity and
increased electrification.6
 Our wider
stakeholder engagement has also
highlighted the impacts of the
unpredictability of UK energy prices
compared to our international competitors,
thanks to the prevalence of gas in our
energy mix, which makes it harder for
businesses to plan and invest. If we are
serious about being a leader in advanced
manufacturing, net zero technology, and
regional rebalancing, we must do what we
can to address the uncompetitive cost of
industrial energy.
The Government recognises the strategic
importance of tackling these barriers. This is
why we offer price relief, through the British
28 Industrial Strategy
Industry Supercharger, for the most energyintensive companies and why we are
reforming grid connections for generation
and demand projects, which could
accelerate connection dates for some
projects by 5 to 7 years.7
 These reforms will
also more than double the amount of
demand connected yearly to the grid, from
the current average of 2.1GW to
3.5GW by 2035.
Under our Clean Energy Superpower
Mission, we also have a longer-term plan to
increase our energy security and reduce
electricity bills by investing in clean energy
and strengthening our connections to the
EU energy market.8
 Greater cooperation
with the EU on energy and carbon pricing
will remove red-tape, making it easier for
businesses to trade and enabling
investment in projects in the North Sea. But
while we focus on translating the cheaper
wholesale costs of clean power into lower
bills, we also recognise the need to act
quickly to support sectors with high-growth
potential or significant exposure to high
electricity costs.
The approach
We will build on existing electricity price relief schemes and grid
connections reforms to:
• Make electricity cheaper for manufacturing industries in the IS-8 and
foundational industries, ensuring competitive prices in order to land and retain
investments.
• Accelerate grid connection timelines for major investment projects, using our
regulatory levers and convening powers to reduce waiting times.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 29
The interventions
To progress these priorities, we are
committing to:
• Reduce electricity costs for
IS-8 manufacturing industries and
foundational industries and increase
support for our most energyintensive industries:
− From 2027, a new British Industrial
Competitiveness Scheme will reduce
electricity costs by c.£35-40/MWh up
to 2030 and support thousands of
businesses. The scheme will benefit
manufacturing electricity intensive
frontier industries in the IS-8, such as
automotive and aerospace, and
foundational manufacturing
industries in the supply chains, such
as chemicals. Eligible businesses will
be exempt from paying the costs of
the Renewables Obligation, Feed-in
Tariffs and the Capacity Market.
The scheme will bring GB electricity
costs more in line with other major
economies in Europe, and level the
playing field for GB businesses.
Eligibility will be determined
following consultation, which will
open shortly, with a review
point in 2030.
− An increase in support for our most
energy-intensive industries eligible
for the British Industry Supercharger
package, with an uplift of the
Network Charging Compensation
(NCC) scheme from 60% to 90%.
This will provide additional price
relief from 2026 for around 500
eligible businesses, further reducing
the competitive gap with
comparable neighbouring countries.
− The Government will continue
support for the Energy-Intensive
Industries Compensation Scheme to
support energy efficiency,
decarbonisation, and technological
innovation. We will conduct a review
of the scheme by the end of this year
that will set out how we plan to
continue supporting energyintensive Industries when the UK
CBAM is implemented in 2027.
− These measures will be funded by
bearing down on levies and other
costs in the energy system.
The Government also intends to use
additional funds from the
strengthening of UK carbon pricing,
including as a result of linking with
the EU carbon market.
• Support the development of the
Corporate Power Purchase Agreements
(CPPA) market in the UK, as a potential
route for energy consumers to secure
more stable electricity prices for the
long term. CPPAs also create alternative
routes to market for low-carbon
electricity generators. The Government
will call for evidence in due course on
how the market for CPPAs can be
developed and improved for industry,
30 Industrial Strategy
including where the UK can draw from
international best practice to improve
competitiveness.
• Reduce grid connection waiting times
for strategically important projects:
− A new ‘Connections Accelerator
Service’ will provide support
connecting to the grid for demand
projects, including prioritising those
that create high-quality jobs and
bring the greatest economic value.
We will work closely with
representatives from the energy
sector, local authorities, Welsh and
Scottish Governments, trade unions,
and industry to design this service,
which we expect to begin operating
at the end of 2025.
− New powers in the Planning and
Infrastructure Bill, currently before
Parliament, to amend regulatory
processes and accelerate
connections for strategically
important projects. This will include a
power to ‘designate’ government
strategic documents, including this
Industrial Strategy, to inform
allocation of connections, enabling
the Government to reserve future
capacity on the grid, dramatically
reducing waiting times for businesses
with major investments in GB.
− Ofgem’s end-to-end review of the
connections process will set out
proposals later this year to
strengthen the incentives and
obligations on network companies
to deliver timely connections, better
customer service and more
accessible connections data.
− As well as reforming connections
processes, we will need to accelerate
build times for new infrastructure.
We will continue to work closely with
Ofgem and industry to mobilise the
major investment. Business plans for
Transmission Owners for the next
five-year price control period (2026-
2031), while still subject to Ofgem
approval, currently set out over
£60 billion in proposed investment.
• Carefully consider reforms to our
electricity market, striking a balance
between delivering a more efficient
power system, maintaining investor
confidence, and passing through the
benefits of cheaper renewable to
consumers, including energy-intensive
businesses. The key issue is whether to
move forward with a zonal pricing
model, where electricity prices vary by
region, or a reformed national
pricing model.
− The Government will conclude the
policy development phase of the
Review of Electricity Market
Arrangements (REMA) shortly. In
order to provide investors with
sufficient confidence, we have also
confirmed that projects allocated to
the next auction round will be given
the same legacy or transitional
arrangements as existing Contract
for Difference agreements, if we
decide to implement zonal pricing.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 31
• Introduce a UK Carbon Border
Adjustment Mechanism (CBAM) from
January 2027, to ensure that highly
traded, carbon intensive products from
overseas face a comparable carbon
price to those produced here. This is to
ensure that UK decarbonisation efforts
lead to a true reduction in global
emissions, rather than simply displacing
carbon emissions overseas. The UK
CBAM will give industry the confidence
to invest in decarbonisation in the UK
knowing these efforts will not
be undercut.
• Deepen cooperation with the EU. We
will both explore the UK’s participation
in the EU’s internal electricity market
and continue technical regulatory
exchanges on new energy technologies.
In addition, we have agreed to work
towards linking our respective Emissions
Trading Schemes, which would create
the conditions for CBAM exemptions.
32 Industrial Strategy
Accelerating to net zero
The transition to net zero is the economic opportunity of the century, one which will
bring significant benefits for households, communities, businesses, and the economy
through good jobs, growth, energy security and lower bills.
Global competition to gain a foothold in rapidly growing markets for clean energy
technologies, green services and sustainable finance is intensifying. Countries that
leverage their natural strengths, technological edge, and skilled workforce will seize
the economic prize of the net zero transition. The UK is perfectly placed to do this:
our net zero economy is already making a significant contribution to growth in the
UK, rising by 10.1% since 2023, three times faster than the overall UK economy.9
 The
transition is generating tens of billions in private investment that will flow directly
into the UK.
There can be no plan for economic stability or sustainable growth that does not
include a credible plan for net zero. Our Industrial Strategy sets out how we will stay
ahead. The IS-8 will all be impacted by the transition and each Sector Plan sets out
how the sector and government, working in partnership, will seize growth
opportunities — whether scaling net zero transport through battery innovation and
electric vehicle manufacturing and sustainable aviation fuels; embedding
sustainability across the economy by backing ESG-focused Professional and Business
Services; investing in net zero-aligned Creative Industries such as Liverpool’s
innovative MusicFutures R&D Cluster; or enabling data-driven innovation through
Smart Data reforms. And crucially – our Clean Energy Industries Sector Plan sets out
how we will produce the next generation of clean technologies, ensuring that we build
the clean energy revolution in Britain, and power the world.
This investment and innovation will have long-term productivity benefits, driven by
the transition to a more resource-efficient, resilient and sustainable economy. This will
include harnessing our digital strengths, using SMART technology to boost grid
flexibility, ensuring resilience and reducing costs. We are also seeing faster growth in
our exports within low-carbon and renewable industries, areas where the UK has the
opportunity to race ahead on the global stage.
To ensure that UK businesses can take advantage of the growth potential of the
transition, we must also put international partnerships and cooperation at the heart
of our approach. We will continue to be a clean energy and climate champion on the
world stage, driving the global transition, opening up new export markets for our low
carbon goods and services, and addressing supply chain bottlenecks by leading the
new Global Clean Power Alliance.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 33
Promoting trade and
international cooperation
International trade and investment
play a crucial role in driving economic
growth, but the global landscape
is changing. Familiar rules of trade
and its multilateral architecture are
being challenged, with increasing
global contests over economic spheres
of influence. In this era, an activist
government working alongside
business to project our national
interests and promote the international
architecture underpinning them will
only be more critical.
The UK will continue to be a champion of
free and fair markets, as the best route to
prosperity. Businesses benefit from our
connectivity, openness, and agency on the
world stage, which open up possibilities to
enter new markets and attract international
capital. The changing world is creating new
opportunities, with greater diversity of
markets in emerging and developing
economies and our partners increasingly
looking for deeper collaboration. Global
demand for the IS-8 increased by 46%
over the last 10 years – more than twice the
growth seen for other industry sectors.10 The
IS-8 saw their global export opportunities
expand by $5 trillion between 2013 and
2023, with a further $10 trillion in growth
forecast by 2035.11
Government must be pragmatic, agile, and
smart in navigating this environment. We
will engage strategically with a wide range
of partners, using the most modern trade
tools, helping businesses to export and
attract investment, building resilience
through cooperation and being assertive
about our own interests and the
importance of a rules-based international
system upholding the principles of open
and fair trade.
We have showcased this approach through
our new deals with the US, EU, India, Japan
and our engagement with China. Our deal
with the US will protect businesses and jobs,
reducing tariffs for UK exporters in critical
sectors and paving the way for a
transformative technology partnership
through which our science-rich nations will
collaborate in areas of advanced
technology. Our Free Trade Agreement with
India, by reducing barriers and supporting
opportunities across high-growth sectors,
will increase bilateral trade by £25.5 billion
each year in the long run.12
34 Industrial Strategy
The new package agreed with the EU will promote cooperation in security and defence,
agri-food trade, emissions trading, and electricity trading. We have launched the first of
our Industrial Strategy Partnerships, with Japan. And we have stepped up political
engagement with China, including through the Economic and Financial Dialogue,
recognising the importance of maintaining a stable and balanced relationship that works
in our national interest for resilient growth.
The approach
We are publishing our Trade Strategy, which, with our Industrial Strategy, will form an
integrated approach to seize global opportunities for UK businesses and protect
them from global headwinds.
We will:
• Use the full suite of trade tools to boost UK growth and unblock barriers for UK
exporters and importers, with a focus on the needs of the IS-8.
• Deepen economic collaboration with our partners and forge new partnerships to
promote our frontier industries and increase supply chain resilience.
• Give UK businesses greater support so they can grasp opportunities in the
world’s largest economies and highest-potential markets, whilst strengthening
relationships with key partners and emerging markets.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 35
The interventions
To progress these priorities, we are
committing to:
• Drive forward specific negotiations as
immediate priorities. It is our
intention to:
− Implement and build on our new
economic deal with the US, which will
protect and support good, well-paid
jobs in both countries.
− Strengthen UK-EU economic
relations, as set out at the May 2025
Leaders’ Summit. This includes a new
Security and Defence Partnership
and commitments to work towards
an agreement on Sanitary and
Phytosanitary (SPS) measures, linking
the UK Emissions Trading Scheme
and EU Emissions Trading System,
and support for services trade,
including on business mobility and
the recognition of professional
qualifications.
− Pursue a wide variety of partnership
models to support the IS-8, while also
seeking to conclude live FTA
negotiations with the Gulf
Cooperation Council, Republic of
Korea, Switzerland and Turkey.
• Support UK businesses to
export through:
− Bringing forward legislation to
increase the maximum size of UK
Export Finance’s financial portfolio,
ensuring it remains competitive with
leading export credit agencies
around the world.
− Improved digital export support,
bringing relevant information
together into one place on GOV.UK
and adding richer content in
response to industry feedback that
the system is cumbersome
to navigate.
− A set of pilots to accelerate the
adoption of Electronic Trade
Documents (ETDs), which the UK was
the first country in the G7 to put on
the same legal footing as
paper documents.
− New support, set out in the Trade
Strategy, for UK regulators, expert
bodies and our overseas trade teams
to open up and shape priority
growth markets.
• Deepen industrial cooperation to
increase investment, trade, innovation
and resilience in our frontier industries
with key partners, exploring
opportunities for joint investment
promotion activity, proactive outreach
from export credit agencies, and
cooperation between Public Finance
Institutions, including through:
− The UK’s first Industrial Strategy
Partnership, agreed with the
Government of Japan in
March 2025.13
− New areas of collaboration with
other close partners to support our
frontier industries and resilient
growth, including through the
upcoming UK-France Summit and
our forthcoming bilateral Treaty
with Germany.
36 Industrial Strategy
− The Global Clean Power Alliance, a
first-of-a-kind forum the UK is
spearheading to tackle energy
supply chain pressures. This will
identify and deliver the most critical
changes needed to diversify clean
energy supply chains – driving
investment, addressing bottlenecks
and shortening lead times.
− New Growth and Investment
Partnerships with growing markets in
the Global South where there are
strong prospects for our frontier
industries to export, invest and
source critical inputs.
• Refocus the Government’s overseas
network (further details to be set out in
the Trade Strategy) towards the IS-8 by:
− Directing our overseas export and
investment officials and diplomats in
major markets to prioritise the IS-8,
building a pipeline of high-value
opportunities that significantly
contribute to UK economic growth.
− Prioritise our resources towards the
international markets which offer the
greatest economic opportunity,
particularly for the IS-8.
− Developing promotional
campaigns to support the IS-8
in important markets.
− Putting Ambassadors in major
markets and our Trade
Commissioners in charge of new
strategic plans to support the IS-8,
with an expectation that they will
develop these in partnership with UK
businesses and national, regional,
and local leaders.
• Expand our ‘Government to
Government’ (G2G) commercial
partnerships capability to facilitate
ambitious deals and open new
commercial opportunities for UK
business in the IS-8 and wider economy,
working with business to develop, by
early 2026, a new UK G2G strategy, to
identify opportunities across sectors,
coordinate expert resource, improve the
entry point for industry and explore new
approaches.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 37
International Partnerships
Industrial Strategy Partnerships are designed to deepen collaboration between the
UK and partner nations focusing on complementary strengths in frontier industries to
build greater economic resilience and growth opportunities. The first was agreed
between the UK and Japan in March 2025, with work underway to formalise
cooperation on: clean energy in the offshore wind sector that will increase
decarbonisation and clean growth; quantum science and technology, creating new
opportunities for leading firms and research institutes to cooperate on innovation,
standards, commercialisation and deep tech start-ups; and a regular dialogue on the
automotive sector to foster exchange on ambitious policy approaches and
commercial opportunities between two of the world’s great automotive nations.
A comprehensive workplan will be agreed to deepen and sustain our collaboration,
including support for investment in each other’s economies and identifying
opportunities for collaboration in third markets.
The UK and Saudi Arabia are also looking to deepen economic relations and address
international challenges through partnership on next-generation industries. This
includes investment in sustainable materials and technologies, creating more than
4,000 jobs across the UK, particularly in Northern Ireland and the North of England.
This builds on existing partnerships with Saudi Arabia that are already accelerating
regional regeneration, supporting the Prime Minister’s commitment to ensure every
region benefits from the UK’s Plan for Change. Our collaboration through the
Strategic Partnership Council and GREAT FUTURES programme will drive
co-investment in strategic sectors including Life Sciences, Advanced Manufacturing,
and the Creative Industries.
38 Industrial Strategy
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 39
Strengthening our economic
and national security
We have entered a new era of
geopolitical competition. Security
and economic ties are shifting in the
face of rising geopolitical instability.
Supply chains are increasingly
volatile, security threats are rising,
and partnerships are changing, with
both our allies and our competitors
taking assertive actions to protect
their security and promote their
strategic strengths. Climate change
creates new threats amidst shifting
energy geopolitics, putting pressure on
supply chains, necessitating climate
adaptation measures, and accelerating
the need for secure homegrown clean
energy. To remain open in a contested
economic sphere, we need to invest
more in our economic security and
resilience.
Doing so will have a clear growth dividend,
creating opportunities for firms to capture
market-share in strategic technologies. In
turn, economic growth will strengthen our
resilience. The more competitive the UK’s
sectors are globally, the greater our
national agency on the world stage,
ensuring we are not at the mercy of
unpredictable external forces or fluctuating
markets. The UK, as a leading defence
producer and centre for R&D, is well-placed
to capture these opportunities.14 Our uplift
of national defence spending to 2.6% of
GDP, with the ambition to reach 3% in the
next Parliament when economic and fiscal
conditions allow, will revitalise our industrial
base. Our reputation as a stable, reliable
partner is a strength. But we will need to be
more activist at home and abroad, building
UK-based capabilities and supply.
This calls even more acutely for the holistic,
economy-wide approach which is one of
the critical principles of this Industrial
Strategy. The path to growth for highpotential sectors rests on strong domestic
foundations, especially in a world where
global supply chains – while still critical –
cannot be relied upon unconditionally. The
formal Invest 2035 consultation highlighted
the importance for the IS-8 of a range of
foundational industries which provide vital
inputs: parts, materials, services, and
infrastructure. Carbon fibre, for instance, is
essential for the production of aeroplanes,
high-end automotive, and larger and more
40 Industrial Strategy
efficient blades for wind turbines. There is
no ready alternative to steel across a vast
array of products across the Defence,
Clean Energy and manufacturing
industries. We will struggle to attract
offshore wind manufacturing and assembly
to the UK without well-developed port
infrastructure. Other inputs are
similarly critical.
These inputs support the competitiveness
of the IS-8 and deliver high-wage, highskilled jobs in local communities. Chemicals
production is a major employer in Cheshire,
Grangemouth, the Humber, and Tees
Valley; Stoke on Trent has been the heart of
the ceramics industry for centuries; there
are Critical Minerals clusters in Aberdeen,
Belfast, Birmingham, Cornwall, Devon,
Durham, Fort William, South Wales, and
Tees Valley; and the largest UK steel sites,
such as those in Port Talbot, Scunthorpe,
Sheffield, and Tees Valley are vital for
local areas.
“Our uplift of national
defence spending to
2.6% of GDP, with the
ambition to reach 3% in
the next Parliament when
economic and fiscal
conditions allow, will
revitalise our industrial
base. Our reputation as a
stable, reliable partner is
a strength.”
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 41
The approach
We will:
• Ensure that public finance is deployed strategically to support economic and
national security.
• Collaborate with our international partners to increase investment into our
strategic industries and secure access for UK businesses to overseas suppliers of
critical inputs, as set out in previous section.
• Strengthen our domestic foundations, informed by deeper analysis of the supply
chains for the IS-8. Our early assessment, informed by the formal Invest 2035
consultation has identified an initial list of inputs from foundational industries,
including electricity networks, ports, construction, steel, critical minerals,
composites, materials, and chemicals, that are important to unlocking growth in
the IS-8. Further analysis will be developed by a new Supply Chain Centre, which
will review inputs, consider the impact of future trends on demand, and determine
what action may be required, such as domestic capability building, diversification,
or strategic international partnerships. This will be completed by the end of 2025
and be used to review priorities for our Public Financial Institutions and sector
grant funds, ensuring that economic resilience is embedded into future
investment and financial support. This Centre will complement the work of the
existing Critical Minerals Intelligence Centre.
• Improve our support offer to guide businesses through an uncertain and volatile
environment, so that they are better-equipped to identify risks, take action to
mitigate them, and engage in safe economic activity.
• Grow resilience across society and the economy. Our National Security Strategy
and forthcoming Resilience Strategy will set out our long-term approach to
improve overall resilience, strengthen national security, and safeguard Critical
National Infrastructure against a wide range of threats.
42 Industrial Strategy
The interventions
• Investing in critical supply chains and
national security capabilities through:
− Our increase in defence spending,
which we will ensure supports growth
across the economy. We will reform
defence procurement, spending at
least 10% of the Ministry of Defence’s
equipment procurement on novel
technologies; and launch UK
Defence Innovation with an initial
£400 million budget.
− An expansion of the National
Security and Strategic Investment
Fund (NSSIF), providing it with up to
£330 million of capital by the end of
the Spending Review period to
strengthen its ability to invest in
companies which address our
national security and defence
capability requirements.
− The Government’s new strategic
steer to the National Wealth Fund
(NWF) to consider investments in
technologies with civil and military
applications and support supplychain resilience in priority sectors. To
deliver this steer, the NWF will
consider analysis from our new
Supply Chain Centre.
− The British Business Bank’s Industrial
Strategy capital, which will invest in
high-growth scale-up businesses
across the IS-8 that will be the future
cornerstone of the UK’s supply
chains and security. The Bank’s
priorities will be informed by analysis
from the Supply Chain Centre.
− UK Export Finance’s (UKEF) launch of
a new loan guarantee scheme for
domestic suppliers selling critical
minerals products to UK exporters.
This will complement UKEF’s existing
critical minerals offering and enable
important suppliers to access
working capital, helping them to
secure long-term import contracts,
protecting them from geopolitical
risks and bolstering supply chain
resilience. Over the next six months,
the Department for Business and
Trade and UKEF will also scope
whether there is an economic case
for broadening UKEF’s product for
critical minerals to cover a wider
range of strategic supply
chain inputs.
− Collaboration between the NWF,
BBB, UKEF, UK Research &
Innovation, and Great British Energy
through the new Strategic Public
Investment Forum, which will
consider how best to target and
coordinate support on strategic
sectors and supply chains. We will
work with the NWF, BBB, and UKEF to
assess the impact of their
investments on economic security
and resilience and include relevant
metrics in their reporting.
− Core resilience objectives for our
Industrial Strategy sector funding
programmes, ensuring that funding
is directed at projects that
strengthen supply-chain resilience
and economic security. Where
appropriate, grant support will aim
to enhance UK supply chains, reduce
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 43
concentrated dependencies, and
promote the re-use of critical
components and goods. We will
develop metrics to monitor how
these funds deliver against
their objectives.
• Take immediate action to support
foundational industries for the IS-8:
− Building up electricity network
supply chains underpinning our
electricity infrastructure, including
exploring a new Market Demand
Guarantee to stimulate domestic
production of key electricity network
equipment, and support for Ofgem’s
new Advanced Procurement
Mechanism, which allows
Transmission Owners to secure
supplier capacity and factory slots
earlier in the project
development cycle.
− Mobilising investment into UK ports,
including through innovative use of
financing. Ports are one of the five
sectors to which the National Wealth
Fund has committed at least
£5.8 billion of its capital. This will be
complemented by direct support for
specific ports, with £55 million
already awarded to the Port of
Cromarty Firth, and up to £80 million
made available through the
Spending Review to support
investment in the Future Port Talbot
project, subject to due diligence.
− Scaling up R&D in composites,
including through support for
government-backed centres such as
Glass Futures in St Helens and the
National Composite Centre in Bristol.
− Modernising the construction sector,
by embedding modern methods of
construction (MMC) in government
infrastructure projects, investing
£625 million to train up to
60,000 more skilled workers,
launching a new Infrastructure
Pipeline digital dashboard in July
2025 and reforming the planning
system. The Competition and
Markets (CMA) will also lead on a
Market Study, providing an
opportunity to transform public
procurement behaviours and
approaches in civil engineering.
− Securing the domestic supply of
steel by shielding our producers from
distortive trade practices, better
utilising our domestic supply of scrap
metal, and identifying opportunities
to stimulate domestic demand.
− Build on our strengths internationally
and across the UK in critical
minerals, a new long-term vision for
the sector. The upcoming 2025
Critical Minerals Strategy aims to
secure our supply of minerals
optimising domestic resources and
enhancing international
collaboration.
− Provide continued relief on electricity
prices for materials sectors like
cement, glass, and chemicals.
Through the uplifted British Industry
Supercharger, eligible energyintensive businesses in foundational
industries can benefit from a
reduction in costs.
44 Industrial Strategy
• Support the shift to low-carbon energy
in the production of critical inputs.
This will include:
− Publishing a technical consultation
on a policy framework to grow the
market for low-carbon
industrial products.
− Incentivising investment into CCUS
and Hydrogen, ensuring that there
are viable pathways for industries
like steel, chemicals, and materials to
decarbonise. In October 2024, the
Government announced up to
£21.7 billion of available funding over
25 years to launch the UK’s
ambitious CCUS industry.15 We have
reached financial close with East
Coast Cluster (ECC) and Liverpool
Bay CCS, securing around £8 billion
of private sector investment.16 The
Government is providing increased
backing to CCUS by allocating
£9.4 billion in capital budgets over
the Spending Review period.
− Promoting resource efficiency, with a
new Circular Economy Strategy for
England to set out the Government’s
approach to encouraging the re-use,
repairing, and recycling of materials
and products.
• Strategic use of procurement to
enhance our security and resilience, as
set out in more detail in Chapter 4.
• Enhance our tools and guidance for
British businesses navigating global
volatility and threats, through:
− A predictable, proportionate, and
transparent investment screening
framework. We will launch a 12-week
consultation on updating the
definitions covering the 17 sensitive
areas of the economy subject to
mandatory notification under the
National Security and Investment
Act (NSIA). The consultation will
propose amendments to ensure that
regulatory requirements remain
targeted and proportionate,
protecting national security and
giving certainty to investors. We will
continue to update guidance to
ensure there is clarity for investors on
how the Act works, including
decision-making processes. We will
also shortly announce specific new
exemptions to the mandatory
regime. And we will explore
opportunities to bring greater
transparency to the NSIA process
and ensure that it protects national
security while minimising burdens
and supporting growth.
− Supporting businesses to upgrade
their cyber security, including by
expanding our Cyber Essentials
accreditation scheme across the UK
and building on the £80 million
which we have already invested,
along with over £200 million of
industry co-investment, in the next
generation of secure chips to
eliminate cyber
vulnerabilities at source.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 45
Nuclear Nation
As the world’s first civil nuclear nation – one which also has significant defence
capabilities – the UK has deep nuclear expertise.17 As we renew our defence industry
and make Britain a Clean Energy Superpower, the UK stands at a pivotal moment to
re-assert and revolutionise its role as a leading, responsible and innovative nuclear
nation. Our civil and defence nuclear capabilities – sharing many requirements for
technology, expertise and infrastructure – are the bedrock of the country’s energy
and national security. The first duty of government is to keep its people safe. As we
invest in the future of our nuclear deterrent, we will continue to increase collaboration
and alignment between both capabilities to maximise the benefits: driving economic
growth, boosting the role of nuclear energy, and developing innovative nuclear
technologies – all while continuing to lead the way for global standards in nuclear
security, safety, and non-proliferation.
We are crowding in investment on a scale not seen in decades. Our commitment to
our National Endeavour – securing the future of our nuclear deterrent – is
unwavering, reinforced by our ‘triple lock’. Major investments include two submarine
programmes in build (Astute and Dreadnought), one in design (SSN-AUKUS), a
Replacement Warhead programme (Astraea) and the largest infrastructure upgrades
in a generation. Marking a step change, government is now taking an active role as a
civil nuclear market maker, embracing early risk to crowd in investment into a range
of civil nuclear technologies.
We are investing £14.2 billion to build Sizewell C, which will be a jobs and growth
engine, supporting 10,000 jobs at peak construction and working with 3,500 suppliers
in all parts of the UK. We are also investing over £2.5 billion to enable one of Europe’s
first Small Modular Reactor (SMR) programmes, with Rolls-Royce SMR selected as
preferred bidder to partner with Great British Energy – Nuclear, subject to
government approvals and contract signature. A new framework, to be published
shortly, will create a pathway for privately-led advanced nuclear technologies, with
the National Wealth Fund exploring potential investment opportunities and the
Department for Energy Security and Net Zero exploring revenue support for
viable projects.
46 Industrial Strategy
Leveraging our common strengths, we are investing in our future, designing and
building strategic sovereign capabilities that will benefit both industries by creating
domestic opportunities and supporting exports. As more countries move to progress
decommissioning of ageing reactors, our unparalleled expertise in nuclear
decommissioning and waste management provides significant opportunities in the
international market for UK companies. We are building the world’s first commercial
scale High Assay Low Enriched Uranium (HALEU) fuel supply chain, which will support
the deployment of next generation reactors and provide energy security for ourselves
and our allies. We are also exploring options to re-establish a nuclear fuel cycle for
defence reactor fuel, aligning with world-leading UK expertise on civil nuclear fuel.
To secure a truly prosperous nuclear nation, we will continue to invest in the long-term
foundations of the whole nuclear sector. The Nuclear Regulatory Taskforce has
already identified that a clear strategic system-wide steer to regulators and duty
holders to aid prioritisation would help streamline our regulatory system and enable
new fleets of reactors to be rolled out more quickly. We will increase investment in our
manufacturing capacity and capability in high value areas to support our shared
supply chains, while our National Nuclear Strategic Plan for Skills will support the
growth of our collective workforce. We will invest in strategic long-term R&D
capabilities through world class laboratories such as AWE Nuclear Security
Technologies. Chief among these future capabilities is fusion, where the Government
has committed over £2.5 billion over 5 years. This includes funding for the world-class
work of the UK Atomic Energy Authority (UKAEA) and progressing the STEP prototype
fusion power station to be built at West Burton by 2040. Our efforts will build on our
clusters of deep expertise in areas such as the East Midlands, Wales, South East, and
the South West of England to deliver benefits across the UK.
Our work is well underway – but there is more to do. We can further align our civil and
defence nuclear capabilities, and will assess opportunities to collectively develop
shared technologies and capabilities. Our approach will provide better value for
taxpayers, create state of the art defence capabilities, increase national security,
develop reliable, low carbon and competitive energy, and boost export opportunities
for UK businesses through international partnerships, such as our Memorandum of
Cooperation with Japan on civil nuclear activities. We are committed to close working
between our civil and defence sectors, and will set out our future plans for civil and
defence nuclear collaboration later this year. We are investing £20 billion over the
next four years into civil nuclear, with a projected spend of over £100 billion through
UK defence nuclear suppliers over the next 10 years. The prize is large, promising to
support up to around 120,000 jobs in the nuclear sector by the early 2030s.18 This will
be a national effort across many decades, bringing together government, industry
and academia to realise the benefits of an advanced nuclear nation.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 47
Expanding access to finance
International competition to attract
and retain innovative, high-growth
firms has risen sharply, and the UK
must focus efforts on being the best
place for investors to allocate their
capital. Private investment is crucial
for firms starting and scaling – it
helps them to increase productivity,
innovate, develop high-risk, highreward technology, and build their
resilience with strong supply chains.
We must leverage the state’s unique
ability to ‘crowd in’ private investment
by pooling risk and providing long-term
stability, creating the conditions for
investment with confidence of strong
returns in our high-growth sectors.
We have a once-in-a-generation
opportunity to attract transformative
private investment, but we must move
quickly. Investors are rapidly reassessing
where they deploy their capital in response
to global instability. The opportunities from
the revolutions in clean energy, technology,
and automation continue to accelerate,
but there is divergence between the United
States, Europe and other advanced
economies in how these transitions are
prioritised, supported and regulated.
The UK’s rule of law, global connectivity,
dynamic start-up culture, and commitment
to net zero make us a compelling
destination for investors. We are a magnet
for international overseas capital, with the
most international stock exchange, the
largest venture capital market in Europe,
and highest ranking amongst European
countries for new Foreign Direct Investment
projects four years running.19
Yet this is not translating into rapid,
sustainable, and resilient growth. The
responses to formal Invest 2035
consultation made clear that businesses
face challenges accessing the finance to
grow in the UK. Further, evidence suggests
accessing finance in the UK is more difficult
than in the US (where funding rounds
above £50 million are much more
common).20 Our UK institutional investors,
with their long-term horizons and large
capital allocations, should be a key part of
the solution but their stake in UK equities
has declined significantly over the last 20
years.21 We need to change this to ensure
that our high-growth sectors can access the
domestic capital required to reach their
potential and secure their UK footprint.
48 Industrial Strategy
The approach
We will deploy catalytic public finance and reform markets strategically to crowd in
the maximum amount of private investment. We will:
• Boost our public finance offer and tilt it towards the IS-8, ensuring that highpotential businesses at every stage of their growth journey have access to
catalytic finance. We will build on the new and expanding National Wealth Fund,
which has a total portfolio of over £6 billion to date – with around £3 billion
invested in the last 12 months – mobilising £14 billion in private finance, expected
to support or create over 21,000 jobs; the British Business Bank (supporting 11% of
all equity deals over the last decade); and UK Export Finance (issuing £22.7 billion
of support over the last three years).22
• Develop the UK’s venture ecosystem, through strategically targeted public
finance to encourage scale-up funds to raise more capital and lead larger
investment rounds in UK businesses.
• Reform capital markets and pensions investment to support the most innovative
firms to start, scale, list, and build their future in the UK. This will build on
reforms to the UK’s listing regime; the innovative PISCES – a new type of stock
exchange for companies who want to stay private for longer; and reforms will
secure £50 billion from Britain’s biggest pension funds for investment in UK
businesses and infrastructure.
• Ensure high-growth firms acting to support their resilience and our national
security are not put at a competitive disadvantage. This means using public
finance to help the IS-8 access critical supply-chain inputs or develop critical
capabilities.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 49
The interventions
• Harness our Public Financial
Institutions to ensure globally
competitive support to businesses and
to target our frontier industries. We will
also strengthen coordination across the
landscape through the new UK Strategic
Public Investment Forum. We will:
− Expand the mandate of the
National Wealth Fund (NWF) to
ensure that its £27.8 billion is
deployed more strategically to drive
growth, including by supporting the
IS-8. The Government has given the
NWF a new strategic steer to
prioritise investments in Clean
Energy Industry sub-sectors, Digital
and Technologies, Advanced
Manufacturing, and transport, and
to consider the role it can play in
Defence, Life Sciences, and
Creative Industries.
− Strengthen our export credit offer.
We will bring forward legislation to
increase the maximum size of UK
Export Finance’s (UKEF) financial
portfolio, ensuring it remains
competitive with leading export
credit agencies around the world. In
addition, the Government has now
made £3 billion of additional UKEF
Direct Lending capacity available,
meaning £13 billionn of lending is on
offer to stimulate overseas demand,
including in the IS-8. At least
£3 billion of this is dedicated to
Defence exports.
− Review UKEF’s mandate over the
next six months to consider whether
it should take on a broader trade
and investment finance remit and
introduce additional flexibility into its
financing criteria for projects that
support and de-risk the IS-8. UKEF
would aim to begin piloting an
approach over the next year, initially
focusing on clean energy.
− Reinforce our support offer for clean
energy projects. Great British Energy
(GBE) and the National Wealth Fund
will provide a strong end-to-end
development and finance offer,
playing distinct and complementary
roles of developer and bank. The
Government has already identified
an initial £300 million for investment
into domestic offshore wind supply
chains through GBE, supporting the
domestic manufacture of critical and
innovative components. GBE and
Great British Energy – Nuclear will
invest more than £8.3 billion over this
Parliament in homegrown
clean power.
• Increase the British Business Bank’s
capacity and capability so that it can
invest across the lifecycle of firms with
high potential. At the Spending Review,
the government announced the Bank’s
total financial capacity would rise to
£25.6 billion, enabling a two-thirds
increase in support for innovative UK
businesses. As a result, the British
Business Bank will:
50 Industrial Strategy
− Commit an additional £4 billion of
capital to support investment and
growth in the IS-8. This investment
will seek to crowd in £12 billion of
private capital.
− Gain the flexibility to use a range of
financing tools to address sectoral
challenges, with improved
monitoring and reporting functions
to track its investments across the
growth-driving sectors.
− Make direct equity investments of up
to £60 million, a new capability
allowing it to anchor future superstar
firms in the UK.
− Back new specialist fund managers
and cornerstone funds with novel
investment strategies, to help
address financing challenges
across the IS-8.
− Commit an extra £2.6 billion of
funding, which will include greater
funding for regional debt and equity
programmes, enabling increased
investment into city regions and
clusters and support for underrepresented entrepreneurs
and investors.
− Benefit from greater freedoms to
invest strategically for the long term,
a new long-term business planning
process, and greater flexibility to
reinvest returns.
− Tackle specific barriers for IP-rich
sectors, working with the Intellectual
Property Office to explore how to
help businesses raise debt finance
secured on intangible assets.
• Deliver further reforms to ensure that
our capital markets and domestic
investors support growth. This
will include:
− Taking forward recommendations
from the Pension Investment
Review’s final report, via the Pension
Schemes Bill, and creating
megafunds that will in turn enable
more productive investment.
− Taking full advantage of the
reformed Solvency regulatory regime
to crowd in investment, for instance
through the Prudential Regulation
Authority’s Investment Accelerator
for life insurers investing in
productive assets.
− Further detail will be set out with the
publication of our Financial Services
Sector Plan on 15 July and will be
supported by ongoing work by the
Bank of England’s Financial Policy
Committee on how the financial
sector can support real
economy activity.
• Prioritise economic security and
resilience in our public finance offer,
with Public Financial Institutions working
together to direct more investment at
strategic sectors and supply chains and
monitoring their contribution to
this objective.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 51
SCALE-UP GAP
Relevant public finance institution
Emerging innovations Growth Maturity
Supply of finance relative to demand
COMMERCIALISATION GAP
Capital needed to validate technology
and develop a MVP
Company Growth and Size of Investment
Capital needed to
scale to maturity
UK Public Financial Institutions
A typical funding journey for innovative businesses and how the UK’s Public Financial
Institutions can support them.
British Business Bank
(BBB) is the UK’s economic
development bank.
The BBB uses its £25.6bn
capitalisation to increase
the finance available to
SMEs through:
•	Investment into partner
funds
•	Direct investment into
companies
•	Providing debt,
guarantees and loans
through commercial
partners
The BBB supports investors
looking to partner with the
BBB or SMEs looking for
investment in the UK.
Innovate UK is the UK’s
innovation agency
and part of UK Research
and Innovation (UKRI).
Innovate UK provides:
•	Grants
•	Loans
•	Pre-procurement
•	Tailored support
Innovate UK supports
businesses seeking to
develop and
commercialise new
products, processes
and services alongside
a growing network of
Investor
Partners providing aligned
private capital.
UK Export Finance (UKEF)
is the UK’s export credit
agency. UKEF drives growth
by helping exporters access
capital and manage the
risk of not getting paid.
UKEF partners with private
sector finance providers
to grow UK exports and
international trade,
providing support for:
•	Working capital loans
•	Export insurance
•	Guarantees to
international buyers
UKEF supports UK
exporters, businesses
looking to export from
the UK and international
businesses sourcing goods
and services from the UK.
The Office for Investment
(OFI) provides a
bespoke concierge
service to help the most
strategically important
investors navigate the
UK landscape, including
the public finance offer,
working with the NWF,
BBB, and other Public
Financial Institutions.
The Development Bank of Wales provides equity financing,
business and property loans to businesses in Wales.
The Scottish National Investment Bank provides debt
and equity to projects and businesses based, or looking to
relocate to, Scotland.
Invest NI helps new and existing businesses to compete
internationally, and by attracting new investment to
Northern Ireland, including by providing loans and equity
investment in NI.
Great British Energy
accelerates clean energy
projects and investments
in emerging technologies
through co-investment with
the private sector.
The UK government also provides a wide range of grant support to those starting businesses and those already
trading, including targeted support for strategically important sectors of the economy and regions of the UK.
National Wealth
Fund (NWF) is the UK
government’s policy bank
and principal investor
deploying capital at scale
to support the growth and
clean energy missions. It
has £27.8bn to crowd in
private finance through:
•	Equity, debt and
guarantee investments in
capital intensive projects
and companies, generally
at later funding stages
•	Advisory services
and lending to local
authorities (LAs)
NWF supports LAs and
those seeking investment
into large projects or
companies.
52 Industrial Strategy
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 53
Driving and supporting innovation
The UK must be at the forefront of
innovation if we want to build a highgrowth, resilient economy that creates
quality jobs and improves living
standards. Innovation helps businesses
become smarter and more efficient.
It creates competitive advantage
for first movers who create novel
products or are quickest to harness new
technologies. And it gives the countries
that nurture it more agency and
leverage on the world stage. We must
be a nation of inventors, entrepreneurs
and tech adopters.
The technology revolution is opening up
immense possibilities for innovation and
economic growth. AI, automation, robotics,
digitisation, augmented and virtual reality,
medicines, advanced materials, 3-D
printing and new energy technologies are
transforming how we live, work, and
improve health and resilience. The gains
from AI innovation alone could add up to
£47 billion a year for the UK in productivity
gains over the next decade.23 Advances in
biology are changing manufacturing,
health care, and food supply, while clean
technologies are driving growth for
companies which innovate. Nations are
vying to attract the most innovative firms,
while trying to create the conditions for
home-grown companies to emerge. And
innovation has an added prominence in the
global threats of new technologies that, in
the wrong hands, can be developed and
deployed to disrupt our national interests.
The UK’s advantages are clear. We have
some of the best universities in the world –
four in the top 10– with the UK second only
to the US in the value created from
university spin-outs, and a culture that has
supported the second highest number of
Nobel Prize laureates globally.24 The UK
ranks as the world’s fifth most innovative
economy and has a globally-renowned
Intellectual Property system.25 We have
vibrant innovation clusters across our four
nations, and the benefits of access to
Horizon Europe, the largest collaborative
funding scheme for research and
innovation.26 We have UKRI, our world-class
national R&D funding agency, with an
annual budget of £8.8 billion, which
supports innovation across the IS-8.27
We have proven models for catalysing
collaboration between research and
industry, including the Catapult Network
(not-for-profit technology and innovation
centres in 65 UK locations). We are
54 Industrial Strategy
refocusing the Government Office for
Technology Transfer to accelerate the
commercialisation of the billions of pounds
of innovation developed by government
research. And we have the Advanced
Research & Invention Agency (ARIA),
custom-built to focus on high-risk, highreward projects. Working with
entrepreneurial partners like Fifty Years,
ARIA is connecting emerging research
opportunities with investors, providing
infrastructure to prototype new inventions
and nurturing talent through fellowships.
Yet we are not doing enough to realise our
potential. In recent years there has been a
slowdown in innovation, with the proportion
of ‘innovation active’ firms decreasing.28 UK
continues to attract businesses to start up,
we have a poor track record of scaling and
retaining them.29 Respondents to the formal
Invest 2035 consultation highlighted that
collaboration and partnerships, including
with academia, as well as funding were
barriers to R&D commercialisation.30 Some
respondents to the consultation perceived
the regulatory environment as lacking in
flexibility and adaptability, making it more
difficult for businesses to innovate.
This is at the frontier – but the UK is also
failing to see the benefits of innovation
diffuse across the whole economy. As well
as invention, adoption of technologies is
critical to economic growth. Businesses
which integrate more advanced
technologies are more productive, with a
higher turnover per worker.31 Increased
productivity from tech adoption has the
potential to increase real GDP by 8% in
2035, with AI technologies alone
contributing 3%.32
But while adoption rates of digital
technologies in the UK have risen over time,
especially since the pandemic, UK
businesses have a poor record – only 18%
have adopted AI, our SMEs are among the
least likely tech adopters in the G7, we have
low levels of robotics and automation
relative to other European countries, and
we are 11th in cloud adoption among OECD
countries.33 Our recent Technology
Adoption Review, led by the Government’s
Chief Scientific Adviser and National
Technology Adviser, found that businesses
face a number of barriers, including
financing constraints, lack of management
skills, information gaps, and policy and
regulatory uncertainty. Tackling these will
be essential.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 55
The approach
The scale of the challenge requires use of the strategic power of the state to pull
through innovation across the economy. We will:
• Prioritise government support for innovation towards the IS-8 and the city
regions and clusters where they are concentrated, ensuring that they are
prioritised by our public funding bodies, such as UK Research and Innovation.
• Focus the UK’s R&D system on long-term economic growth, with three important
aims for public sector investment: advancing basic curiosity-driven research;
delivering on government priorities; and enhancing innovative company
formation and growth.
• Take an enduring, systems-level approach through our Science & Technology
Framework, to ensure that science and technology inform how we deliver our
national missions and drive economic growth.
• Help innovative firms with high growth potential scale-up and grow in the UK,
with an integrated package of support aligning our innovation and R&D
interventions with wider government policy, including on access to finance, skills,
infrastructure, regulation, and procurement.
• Make the UK the best place in the world to invest in AI, to harness its
transformative power for the economy. The Government is implementing the
recommendations of the AI Opportunities Action Plan, creating an AI Ready
economy, through better AI infrastructure, access to legally available data, AI
adoption across the economy, pro-innovation regulation, and elite AI talent
development and attraction.
• Increase tech adoption in the IS-8 to increase their productivity and
competitiveness, acting on the findings set out in the Technology
Adoption Review.
• Capture technology specialisms in frontier industries to maximise spillover
benefits, particularly in civil/military technologies where innovation can support
national security and economic growth.
56 Industrial Strategy
The interventions
To progress these priorities, we are
committing to the following actions:
• Drive innovation in our frontier
industries, underpinned by record
public investment of £20.4 billion in
2025/26 rising to 22.6 billion in 2029/30,
targeted at the IS-8, leveraging private
investment in cutting-edge research,
technologies, and commercial
applications. We will:
− Provide increased funding stability
through 10-year budgets on public
R&D investment in specific areas,
recognising that long-term cycles
make it easier for researchers and
businesses to form partnerships,
develop talent and collaborate
internationally. The first recipients of
this commitment are the Aerospace
Technology Institute, the DRIVE35
programme for automotive, the
National Quantum Computing
Centre, and Laboratory of
Molecular Biology.
− Incentivise collaboration between
industry and academia on applying
research to real-world challenges,
including by expanding the AI
Research Resource, a cluster of
supercomputers, by at least 20x by
2030 and a new R&D Missions
Accelerator Programme, with
£500 million of funding. These
initiatives will complement continued
investment in basic curiosity-driven
research, which underpins
technological transformations.
− Foster innovation-led growth across
the UK through the Local Innovation
Partnerships Fund, which will provide
up to £500 million to grow our highpotential innovation clusters across
the UK. The fund will aim to generate
£1 billion of co-investment and
£700 million of additional value to
local economies, including through
new jobs, products, and services.
• UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) will
increase support for the IS-8 by
pivoting its programmes and budgets
towards research and innovation
priorities set out in the Industrial
Strategy and Sector Plans – working
closely with its sponsor department,
DSIT, as well as other government
departments and industry. It will also be
given new objectives to set out its role in
delivering government priorities,
including enabling innovation,
commercialisation, and scale-up across
the UK. Innovate UK, as the UK’s
innovation agency, will play a central
role in accelerating the
commercialisation of new technology,
and we will ensure that the Catapult
Network, which Innovate UK funds, is
also focused on our Industrial Strategy
priorities.
• Establish a new Sovereign AI Unit within
government, with up to £500 million to
maximise the UK’s stake in frontier AI.
The Unit will work with the British
Business Bank to make investments
alongside a wider offer on data,
compute and talent to build UK AI
capabilities in partnership with the
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 57
private sector. Success will be tracked by
metrics including investment leveraged,
number of start-ups supported,
partnership outcomes with later stage
companies and the UK’s AI
research rankings.
• Continue to support universities
through Higher Education Innovation
Funding (HEIF). Worth £280 million in
2024-2025, this will continue to support
universities in England to work with
business, charities and the wider
community for economic and social
benefit including by de-risking earlystage innovation, providing business
development support and boosting
entrepreneurship training.
• Shift the dial on technology adoption
across the economy through:
− An expansion of proven
interventions. This includes an
expansion of our successful Made
Smarter Adoption programme across
England with up to £99 million from
2026 to support a further 5,500 small
and medium-sized manufacturing
businesses to take up new
technologies. We will also expand
the model to create a dedicated
scheme for the Professional and
Business Services sector. We will also
put into place demonstration
programmes to enhance technology
confidence and use across
businesses. This will be achieved, for
example, by establishing new
adoption hubs for robotics.
− An Industrial Strategy AI Adoption
Fund to facilitate the development
of cutting-edge AI solutions in
high-growth potential firms
across the IS-8.
− Government taking a greater role to
coordinate technology adoption
activity. Building on the Technology
Adoption Review, Department for
Science, Innovation, and Technology
and DBT will work with policy and
analysis teams to develop digital
technology adoption policy and
monitor and evaluate the impact of
the Government’s interventions. This
work will seek to clarify the
landscape of programmes for
industry; build partnerships with IS-8
industries to enable faster and wider
adoption; monitor AI adoption
across the economy; and explore
interventions to improve
management skills for adoption,
targeted specifically at senior
leaders in industry.
“The gains from AI
innovation alone could
add up to £47 billion a
year for the UK in
productivity gains over
the next decade.”
58 Industrial Strategy
Frontier Industries with Civil and Military Applications
Our Sector Plans prioritise frontier industries critical to the development of
technologies and capabilities with both civil and military applications, and where
investment supports both economic growth and security. These include advanced
materials, aerospace, ai, advanced connectivity technologies, batteries, cyber,
engineering biology, nuclear, quantum, semiconductors, and space.
We will develop and sustain our comparative advantage in these areas. To maximise
the growth and security impact of our interventions across our Sector Plans, we will
improve coordination across government and with industry, collectively identifying
priorities for civil-military acquisition and investment. This includes:
• Consultation between the Ministry of Defence and other government
departments, including DSIT and DBT, in developing future prioritisation of R&D
initiatives and innovation spending, with additional input from the
intelligence community.
• An increase in industry participation in shaping these plans, including through the
external advertisement of leadership roles, and input from the Defence
Innovation Advisory Panel and Defence Industrial Joint Council.
• Continued upskilling of the Civil Service cadre working at the intersection of
national security and defence and science and technology, including through the
College for National Security and enhanced coverage of relevant security
clearances.
• Improved information-sharing and governance arrangements between relevant
departments, including a new cross-government forum to bring coherence to
efforts to encourage development of these technologies in the UK, and the
growth and success of firms developing them.
• Collaboration between institutions and funding bodies across the science,
innovation, and technology ecosystem to ensure that the wider benefits of funded
research in civil-military areas are recognised, ensuring effective value for money
and fostering a healthy domestic research environment.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 59
Capitalising on the value of data
Data is one of the UK’s unrealised
growth assets: it increasingly underpins
innovation and productivity in all
sectors. Harnessing private and public
sector data effectively is estimated
to have the potential to increase
productivity growth by 0.5%-1.3% per
year, with 85% of the potential being
in the private sector, and 15% of the
potential in the government and third
sector.34 As the IS-8 increasingly rely
on high-quality data to deliver better
products and services, the ability to
collect, share and use data in a safe
and trusted way has become essential.
The UK already creates, maintains and
shares a range of data assets. This includes
raw data and digitised content, as well as
intelligence, products and services derived
from data. The UK Biobank plays an
important role in helping researchers
understand diseases and develop
treatments, and Administrative Data
Research UK helps the public sector
develop more informed policies on public
services. It is estimated that the National
Underground Asset Register, a digital map
of underground pipes and cables in
England, Wales, and Northern Ireland, will
generate over £400 million of economic
benefit annually.35 Ongoing digitisation of
the Natural History Museum’s collection of
80 million objects could generate up to
£2 billion for the UK economy over 30 years
and help researchers to address
fundamental questions about life on
Earth.36 These data assets have intrinsic
value and power the digital economy,
support evidence-based policy making,
and enhance public service delivery.
However, data is often too siloed,
fragmented or underused in the UK for our
businesses and public services to reap the
benefits. This was echoed in the response to
the formal Invest 2035 consultation, where
respondents suggested that the
Government could take action to overcome
barriers to data access and data sharing.
Our engagement with industry also
highlighted concerns around privacy, bias
and trust, especially when using data and
content to train AI. Without a clear vision to
unlock the value of data across the
economy, there is a risk the UK falls behind
international competitors who are investing
heavily in data-sharing infrastructure.
Without direct incentives for businesses to
60 Industrial Strategy
share data, which can include discovering
market value for it, guarding data is often
seen as the more attractive
commercial choice.
The UK is well placed to be a global leader
in the data economy, building on our
existing position as the leading data
economy in Europe. We have powerhouse
academic institutions and Creative
Industries producing data and content to
spearhead innovation. The UK produces
some of the best longitudinal public data
sets in the world, with insights already being
used to create more effective policy and
intervention. And our proportionate digital
regulation supports a thriving tech sector
who can use data responsibly. Our data
driven companies generate £85 billion
annually and employ 5% of all UK
employees.37
The Government has a key role to play. By 
improving access to data for innovators,
researchers and businesses across the UK,
we can transform lives through better
public services and cutting-edge
innovation. Increased use and sharing of
UK health data can reduce NHS wait times
and enhance diagnostics, while our
geospatial data can improve public
transport and urban planning. By linking
data across areas such as education and
housing, we can identify barriers and
support more targeted interventions.
Enhancing access to transport and logistics
data can improve supply chain capabilities
and resilience, ensuring UK businesses and
consumers have access to the goods
they need.
The greatest economic benefits will only
come when UK businesses, citizens, and
public sector institutions can confidently,
effectively, and responsibly collect, share,
and use data. To maximise the economic
potential of data across the economy, we
must not only improve access to highquality public sector data, but also ensure
we can measure its value and seek
appropriate return. We need to enhance
the capability of UK businesses and
consumers, to ensure the benefits of data
sharing are realised along all aspects of our
economy. We require policy clarity,
leadership, cross-sectoral collaboration
and a clear long-term vision that we will
deliver through the modern
Industrial Strategy. 
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 61
The approach
To address this, we will:
• Treat data as a modern economic, financial, and social asset, creating the
conditions for investment in data and ensuring its value is realised directly and
across the economy.
• Ensure that businesses, innovators, and the public sector have the tools,
infrastructure, and capabilities to unlock data’s financial, economic and
societal benefits.
• Transform how data is used to increase growth and improve lives, empowering
individuals with their own data and enabling businesses to do more with data and
derive financial benefit from their assets while maintaining public trust.
The interventions
By 2035, we aim to establish the UK as a
global leader in data-driven innovation
and content creation, with a robust, secure,
and interoperable data-sharing
infrastructure that supports sustainable
economic growth, enhances public services,
and makes the most of a more dataliterate workforce to improve productivity
growth. To progress these priorities, the
Government will:
• Develop and implement a data
valuation framework by April 2026 to
guide the Government’s approach to
realising the value of data. This
framework will help the public sector
assess and benefit from the financial,
economic, and societal value of the
different types of data it holds –
balancing commercial opportunities
with public benefit and long-term
growth. To implement this we will:
− Expand the range of standardised
licenses used to make public sector
data available. This will enable
innovation and maximise the UK’s
economic, social, and direct
financial return from public data.
− Bring forward legislation when
parliamentary time allows, to simplify
how the public sector makes data
available in a trusted way for
businesses to innovate and grow,
while considering the implications for
national security and safeguarding
citizens and businesses.
• Invest up to £12 million in UK Data
Sharing Infrastructure Initiatives from
April 2026. Learning from international
practices, including the Common
European Data Spaces, these will
promote effective and more
coordinated approaches to governance,
legal considerations, regulations, data
interoperability, security, and trust.
62 Industrial Strategy
Businesses will be able to adopt these
approaches and receive guidance,
lowering costs and improving their
ability to harness data from
different sectors.
• Support the development of data and
content marketplaces or exchanges in
the UK. These will establish UK markets
for data so that we secure a competitive
advantage for our businesses,
innovators, and creators. By enabling
them to negotiate terms, it will allow
them to create value from their assets
and support innovation. As a first step,
and as set out in the AI Action Plan, we
will establish a Creative Content
Exchange (CCE) to be a trusted
marketplace for selling, buying,
licensing, and enabling permitted
access to digitised cultural and creative
assets. This will open up new revenue
streams and allow content owners to
commercialise and financialise their
assets while providing data users with
ease of access. In this way, the CCE will
help fuel the next wave of creative
innovation while facilitating the
development of high-value AI models.
Discovery and testing of appropriate
models and technologies with early
adopter content-owners will be
supported by UKRI’s R&D Missions
Accelerator Programme.
• Invest £36 million to support new Smart
Data schemes, allowing consumers and
businesses to share their data securely
with authorised third-parties in return
for improved product offers, tailored
services, and financial compensation.
We will progress proposals for schemes
in energy and financial services and
explore the potential for Smart Data in
other sectors, including transport, digital
markets, and property. Smart Data
could have a significant impact on
growth due to the competition and
productivity benefits of data mobility.
This can be seen from the success of
Open Banking, where 82 firms alone
have raised over £2 billion in private
funding since 2018 and created 4,800
skilled jobs.38
• Introduce the National Data Library,
backed by over £100 million of
government funding. This will bolster the
UK’s rapidly growing AI sector, provide
the trusted data foundations for
innovation and growth in the IS-8, and
support digitisation in government
responsibly unlocking high value public
sector data. The National Data Library
will complement recently announced
initiatives, including the creation of our
new Health Data Research Service via a
£600 million partnership with the
Wellcome Trust, establishing a single,
secure access point to NHS datasets.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 63
Enhance skills and accelerate
access to talent
The competitiveness of our highgrowth sectors rests on their access
to skills and talent. Ensuring the UK
has a healthy population whose skills
meet the needs of employers will bring
people into the labour market and
unlock opportunities for high quality
jobs. Skills increase productivity,
increase innovation, and support
tech adoption.39 In an era of rapid
technological change, as new skills
come to the fore and automation
and AI fundamentally transform the
nature of work, the strength and depth
of the UK’s skills pipeline, beginning
with early years and school right up
to the technology awareness of senior
managers, will be critical for attracting
globally mobile investment and
transforming businesses. This means
we need to support the workforce to be
ready for the green jobs of the future,
highly digitally literate, AI savvy, and
prepared to upskill and retrain to seize
opportunities in emerging sectors.
Skills and talent have long been the UK’s
calling card to the world. We have worldclass universities and a well-educated
workforce with one of the highest levels of
tertiary attainment in the OECD.40 Our
openness makes us a magnet for the
brightest and best. And our skills system,
Jobcentres, and wider employment support
system create opportunities and build
economic resilience by providing vital
opportunities for a diverse cohort, from
those looking to enter the workforce for the
first time to those at risk of losing their job
to automation – supporting our long-term
ambition of 80% employment.
Yet the current system is not working for
everyone. Too many young people have not
progressed to technical and vocational or
higher education, and too many workers
are trapped in insecure, low-quality work.
Over the last 15 years, we have seen falls in
participation in adult further education
and employer investment in training per
worker. We have also seen a decline in
participation in apprenticeships with
numbers falling by almost a fifth between
2016/17 and 2023/24.41 10% of businesses
report at least one skills
shortage vacancy.42
64 Industrial Strategy
In particular, the system is not working for
the IS-8. There are significant skills
shortages across our frontier and
foundational industries, and only 9% of
Secondary vocational learners are studying
in the in-demand sectors of engineering,
manufacturing, and construction,
compared to the OECD average of 32%.43
Over the last five years there has been a
20% increase in university applications in
engineering and technology, but the
number of engineering graduates each
year has remained steady.44 In our formal
Invest 2035 consultation, respondents
identified numerous barriers impacting
workforce development in the UK and felt
that flexibility to meet the specific
demands of different sectors or industries
should be prioritised. Businesses have told
us that the skills system is not meeting their
needs, with not enough of the flexibility
they require to build a modern workforce,
equipped with the right skills – including AI,
digital, management, and data skills,
hampering tech adoption and the
productivity gains this can bring.
The approach
To address this, we will:
• Ensure that the skills system and employment support are aligned to strategic
economic priorities, including the needs of the IS-8 and transformative
opportunities like AI. Working with partners including Mayoral Strategic
Authorities, we will harness all parts of the system to create a talent pipeline for
crucial occupations, from our work experience schemes and apprenticeships, to
our Higher Education and Further Education sectors, to our network of Jobcentres
- which provide employment support to millions of people, many holding degree
level qualifications.45 As education policy is devolved, we will partner with
devolved governments to align approaches on shared skills priorities in our
Industrial Strategy sectors.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 65
• Simplify the skills system in England to provide easier access to jobs in the IS-8,
benefitting all. Skills England will play a critical role in addressing systemic issues
by bringing coherence, simplifying the landscape and co-designing solutions to
skills shortages in collaboration with businesses.
• Encourage engagement and investment from employers to address skills gaps
and build talent pipelines, including by working with Skills England to identify
needs and co-develop solutions. Skills England will also work with devolved
governments to create a coherent and accessible skills system for the IS-8 to
access across the UK.
• Make it easier for innovators, investors, entrepreneurs, researchers and
creatives to come to the UK to live and work by reducing bureaucracy and
ramping up our international talent-spotting.
• Promote evidence-based initiatives, as set out in our Sector Plans, aimed at
improving workforce diversity to support business and economic growth.
Diversity in the workforce is critical to attracting and retaining talent in the IS-8.
The interventions
To progress these priorities, we are
committing to:
• Align our skills systems with the IS-8.
We will take action to ensure individuals
are supported at all stages of life to
develop the skills we need to
drive progress:
− Provision for 16-19:
Ǵ We will ensure there are
sufficient courses to support an
additional 65,000 16–19 yearolds in England by 2028-29,
including providing key pathways
into priority occupations in the
IS-8. Through High Value Course
Premia we will deliver funding
uplifts to priority courses that
support key IS sectors, such as
engineering and digital. These
areas address critical skills
shortages that underpin multiple
sectors in the IS.
Ǵ We will ensure that funding is
provided to address the
challenges of recruiting and
retaining high-quality teachers
in Further Education, especially
for courses covering skills in
shortage in priority sectors.
We have boosted funding for
16-19 provision by £400 million in
2025-26, and are investing a
further £160 million in colleges
and other providers to address
priorities, such as recruitment and
retention. In addition, almost
6,000 early career FE teachers in
areas such as STEM have
66 Industrial Strategy
received Targeted Retention
Incentive payments worth up to
£6,000 tax free.
Ǵ We will also invest in the estate
and facilities needed to deliver
priority training with £200 million
Capital Investment via the Skills
Mission Fund to tackle sectorspecific shortages, including
expanding Technical Excellence
Colleges beyond construction.
This is in addition to £375 million
of capital investment to support
post-16 capacity to
accommodate additional
learners entering the system.
The Government is also investing
£1.7 billion capital funding from
2026-27 to 2029-30 to help
colleges maintain the condition
of their estate, including an
annual allocation rising in line
with inflation.
− Growth and Skills Levy flexibility:
Ǵ We will continue to roll out
shorter duration and foundation
apprenticeships to give more
people the opportunity to learn
and earn in IS-8 sectors from
August 2025. This builds on
previously announced examples
in engineering, manufacturing
and digital.
Ǵ We will go further by introducing
short courses in England, funded
through the Growth and Skills
Levy, in areas such as digital,
artificial intelligence and
engineering. These will support
Industrial Strategy sectors such as
in Creative Industries and
Advanced Manufacturing from
April 2026. We will work with Skills
England to determine the courses
which will be prioritised in the first
wave of rollout and subsequent
waves, and how those sit
alongside apprenticeships and
other training routes. We will work
with Skills England to introduce
these short courses and consider
how to prioritise investment
across the programme.
− Higher Education:
Ǵ The Strategic Priorities Grant will
be more effectively targeted
towards priority provision which
supports future skills needs and
the Industrial Strategy. We will
also set out reforms for the
Higher Education system in
England in the forthcoming Post16 Education and Skills White
Paper, recognising the crucial role
of universities as engines for
innovation and skills (see
universities infographic below).
− Life-long learning:
Ǵ From January 2027 we will launch
the Lifelong Learning
Entitlement which will enable
individuals to learn, upskill and
retrain across their working lives.
The first modular courses for
approval will support progression
into the IS-8. The significant
proportion of the Adult Skills Fund
that is devolved to Mayoral
Strategic Authorities targets local
skills needs in line with Local
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 67
Growth Plans and Local Skills
Improvement Plans, providing
further support to adult learners
to meet skills needs in the IS-8,
including through Skills
Bootcamps, Sector Based Work
Academy Programmes, and Free
Courses for Jobs.
− Investment:
Ǵ We will provide £1.2 billion of
additional investment in skills
per year by 2028-29 alongside
further support from measures
outlined in the Immigration
White Paper.
• Provide specific support for skills
critical to the IS-8. We will bring forward
three further packages targeted at
skills needed in multiple IS sectors.
This will build on our construction
package and further demonstrate our
commitment to prioritising and
supporting the IS-8 within the
skills system:
− The first is our TechFirst technology
skills package, announced by the
Prime Minister at London Tech Week
2025. We will invest £187 million to
bring digital skills and AI learning
into classrooms across all
communities and prepare citizens of
all backgrounds for the careers of
the future. This includes supporting
over 4,000 graduates, researchers,
and innovators in areas like AI, cyber
security and computer science
through the TechGrad, TechExpert
and TechLocal programmes,
alongside supporting 1 million school
children through the
TechYouth programme.
− We have separately launched a new
industry partnership with major
tech players, including NVIDIA,
Google and Microsoft, to train
7.5 million UK workers in essential AI
skills by 2030 and will explore how to
implement the AI skills
recommendations of the Tech
Adoption Review, which include
creating a UK-wide network of AI
adoption hubs.
− The second is an engineering
package, recognising that
engineering skills are at the heart of
several of the IS-8. We will provide
investment of over £100 million over
three years to support engineering
skills in England, working with Skills
England to determine how this can
increase the pipeline of skills through
further and higher education and
apprenticeships. With capital
funding provided via the Skills
Mission Fund, this will include
launching Technical Excellence
Colleges to address shortages in
engineering, which is critical to the
skills needed in priority sectors
including Advanced Manufacturing,
Clean Energy Industries and Digital
and Technologies. Skills England will
ensure that training and
qualifications remain aligned with
shifting workforce needs, including
looking at funding bands to ensure
they reflect delivery (working with key
partners like Make UK). We will work
68 Industrial Strategy
with the sector to ensure the
maximum impact of this package,
including opportunities for industry
co-investment or other contributions.
− The third is a defence package to
boost the number of skilled workers
entering the defence sector, which is
foundational for national security
and economic growth. We will
establish Defence Technical
Excellence Colleges, provide funding
for courses for defence related skills,
and invest in cutting edge university
facilities to increase places for
defence skills provision. Delivering
this package will be a joint
endeavour between government
and industry; full details will be set
out in the Defence
Industrial Strategy.
− These three packages will build on
our construction skills package
which, as previously announced,
includes over £600 million of
investment over the next 4 years to
train up to 60,000 more skilled
construction workers. This will include
establishing 10 construction
Technical Excellence Colleges,
expanding construction course
provision, extending construction
Skills Bootcamps and providing
industry placements to help learners
get ‘site-ready’.
• Work with employers to drive
investment in training and secure
commitments to develop a skilled
workforce for their sectors. As set out
below (‘Delivering a tax system that
supports growth’), businesses can also
generally deduct the cost of training
their staff when calculating their
corporate tax liability. Encouraging
employer investment in training will
also include:
− Deepening employer partnerships
via Technical Excellence Colleges,
expanded industry placements and
facilitating workforce exchanges with
the FE system. Skills England will
engage with industry and other
partners to develop skills passports,
building on best practice and
learning from previous examples.
This will support the documenting
and transfer of industry-recognised
skills and competencies, improve
visibility for employers and providers,
and improve progression and
lifelong learning.
− Using government’s procurement
power to create good quality local
jobs and boost skills by streamlining
and strengthening criteria for
suppliers to contribute to these
objectives in their bids. We will
consult shortly on requiring
contracting authorities to publish
and report against at least one key
performance indicator in major
contracts that ensures delivery of
commitments to create new local
jobs, opportunities and skills,
including for infrastructure projects.
We further propose changes for
public bodies to set at least one
award criteria in major procurements
that relates to these social
value criteria.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 69
− Agreeing Workforce Strategies for
sectors facing shortages linked to
skills, training, and conditions in the
UK, with a set of tangible actions to
move the dial and support good
jobs. These will be coordinated and
published by relevant government
departments working in partnership
with industry alongside trade unions,
local leaders, devolved governments
and wider stakeholders. Whether a
sector needs a Workforce Strategy
will be based on an initial
assessment by the relevant
government departments in
conjunction with the sector and Skills
England of whether there are
sufficient plans in place already to
upskill the domestic workforce.
The first of these Strategies will be
published by the Office for Clean
Energy Jobs in 2025, utilising our
existing skilled energy workforce as
we create good jobs across the UK.
The process for producing these
strategies will be supported by a new
expert group, the Labour Market
Evidence Group (LMEG), comprising
the Industrial Strategy Advisory
Council, Migration Advisory
Committee (MAC), Skills England
(and equivalent organisations in the
devolved governments) and
Department for Work and Pensions.
This group will provide analysis and
share evidence to support the
development of the strategies and
help government ensure that UK
businesses in the IS-8 have access to
the skilled workers they need.
• In recognition of the scale of the skills
challenge, in addition to the
interventions set out above, the Chair
of Skills England, in partnership with the
Industrial Strategy Advisory Council, will
explore how employers, individuals and
local and central government work
together to address the UK’s skills needs
to support jobs of the future in the
growth-driving sectors, and in particular
opportunities for further business
engagement and investment into the
skills pipeline.
• Help more people start and progress in
careers in the IS-8, through reforms to
how we support jobseekers and the
economically inactive and through
improved guidance, advice, and access:
− Supporting people to take up roles
in priority occupations through the
Department for Work and Pensions’
634 Jobcentres spread across Britain
and through the wider employment
support system. DWP will broaden
the range of employers it supports
through the new Jobs and Careers
Service, which brings together
Jobcentre Plus with the National
Careers Service, in England, to make
employment support, skills, and
careers provision more joined up.
Through a Pathfinder in West
Yorkshire we have already started
testing options for how this should
operate. The new service will be
available to everyone, not just
benefits claimants, will be designed
to meet local needs, and will be
crucial in ensuring more of our
domestic workforce can take full
advantage of the opportunities that
the Industrial Strategy will bring.
70 Industrial Strategy
− Building on the Government’s
commitment in the Get Britain
Working White Paper to create an
inclusive labour market in which
everyone can participate and
progress in work. For example, we
will support young people to access
careers in growth driving sectors
through the new Youth Guarantee,
which will ensure every young person
aged 18-21 has access to further
learning and help to get a job or
apprenticeship. We have also
launched Inactivity Trailblazers to
help the economically inactive into
work or training. Tailored to the
needs of local areas, these
Trailblazers are testing ways to
reduce inactivity and developing
joined-up offers of local health,
employment, and skills support.
• Temporarily exempt occupations
crucial to the delivery of the Industrial
Strategy from the planned increase to
the threshold for the Skilled Worker
visa. These exemptions will apply via the
new Temporary Shortage List, which will
be published shortly. The list includes
occupations from across the breadth of
our frontier industries such as welders,
laboratory, computer-aided design
(CAD), IT, and engineering technicians,
and data analysts. In Spring 2026, the
list will be subject to review on advice
from the MAC on whether an
occupation’s inclusion should be
extended. Recognising the crucial
importance of skills to growth in the IS-8,
in its advice the MAC will be supported
by members of the LMEG to consider
projected skills gaps, acknowledging
that changes to the skills system will
take time to come to fruition. For
occupations to be added or remain on
the Temporary Shortage List, the LMEG
will expect there to be an appropriate
plan in place setting out how employers
will play their role in developing
domestic skills and increase local
recruitment. The LMEG will work with
government and industry to assess
whether a formal sector Workforce
Strategy is required and ensure such a
plan is in place in time for the MAC to
make their assessment in spring 2026.
• Focus on getting the world’s brightest
minds to relocate to the UK, by:
− Setting up a new Global Talent
Taskforce, reporting to the Prime
Minister’s Office and the Treasury.
This will provide a concierge service
for top talent, using our international
network and UK diaspora to connect
with elite individuals; facilitating a
smooth and soft landing into the UK
for them; and identifying
improvements to our offer to make
the UK the natural destination for
them to come.
− Improving our offer for top talent,
with a £54 million Global Talent Fund
to attract around 10 world-class
researchers and their teams to the
UK, covering relocation and research
costs over five years, with funding
starting this year; and new Turing AI
‘Global Fellowships’ specifically for
overseas researchers, providing
£25 million of multi-year funding for
academics to build a team and
conduct groundbreaking AI research
at a UK institution.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 71
− Backing this up with our visa routes
and reforms in our recent
Immigration White Paper. We will
implement a capped and targeted
expansion of the High Potential
Individual route for top graduates,
doubling the number of qualifying
universities in line with the start of
the next academic year, and reform
the Global Talent visa to make it
more accessible to promising top
talent. This will include expanding
the range of fellowships which grant
access to the Global Talent visa and
by making the visa accessible to a
broader range of design talent. We
will also review our Innovator
Founder visa so that entrepreneurial
talent currently studying at UK
universities can move onto it more
easily. We will ask the Global Talent
Taskforce to continue to promote all
our visa routes as part of our
compelling offer to the world’s
best talent.
• Improve business mobility. We will
continue to explore ways to make it
easier for British professionals to move
temporarily between the UK, EU, and
other international partners to meet
short-term business needs and to
provide services to their customers,
building on customers. This builds new
dialogues on mobility and recognition
of professional qualifications
announced at the May 2025 UK-EU
Summit, and as part of other
international agreements.
72 Industrial Strategy
UK universities will play a critical role in
delivering our Industrial Strategy.
We consistently achieve high
global rankings for innovation
and are renowned for our Higher
Education system, boasting 4
universities in the global top
ten, and 17 in the top 100.
QS World University Rankings (2026) Top global universities.
*Public First (2025) “Global talent and local growth
London Economics (2023) “The impact of the higher education sector
on the UK economy; Summary Report for Universities UK.
Ref: London Economics (2023) “The impact of the higher education
sector on the UK economy; Summary Report for Universities UK
Ref: Frontier Economics (2024) “Returns to Public R&D: Report for the Department for Science, Innovation and Technology
Ref: HM Government (2024) UK revenue from education related
exports and transnational education activity for 2021
385,500
382,500
FTE jobs
created directly
(2021-22)
FTE jobs supported
throughout the wider
economy (2021-22)
£21.74bn
UK’s education related
exports and transnational
education activity (2021)
Universities are crucial to regional
and local economic impacts and
are anchor institutions in their local
communities, with research showing
they are in the top three exporters in
102 constituencies in the UK*
More than 80%
UK university
research classified as
‘world-leading’ or
‘internationally excellent’
Universities make a significant contribution to the economy and play a critical role
in the wider skills and innovation system, with research indicating that £100 million
of public R&D investment could be expected on average to yield, in 6 years’ time,
an increase in annual private sector productivity worth £40 million
Over
22,000
active firms in 2023/24 were
associated with intellectual
property spin-off activities from
UK providers
Universities are
incubators of ideas
that spur commercial
successes
In almost a decade, the
number of active-start
ups established at
universities grew by
72%
Research Excellence Framework (2021) Results and submissions
Research Excellence Framework (2021) Results and submissions
Ref:Ibid
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 73
Reducing regulatory burdens
In an era of unpredictability, the UK’s
regulatory environment must be a
strength that supports businesses in
the IS-8 to grow and invest here. Many
countries have learnt this lesson from
the UK’s strengths: that a consistent
regulatory framework is essential
for maintaining market competition
and giving businesses the confidence
to make investment decisions and
challenge incumbents.46 Proportionate,
targeted regulation improves
economic resilience and national
security.47 Agile regulation that keeps
pace with technological progress
provides competitive advantage,
creating a trusted environment for
bringing innovations to market quickly
and safely.
But too often regulation is a reason why
investors do not invest. As we set out in our
Regulation Action Plan, published in March
2025, the UK’s regulatory framework has
become too complex, uncertain and risk
averse. It imposes significant burdens on
industry, particularly on high-growth
businesses.48 Respondents to the formal
Invest 2035 consultation echoed this, with
some saying they find the regulatory
system complex and lacking in adaptability,
making it more difficult for businesses to
innovate and for SMEs to enter the market.
We will not deliver our ambitions unless we
tackle the risks of regulation stifling growth.
74 Industrial Strategy
The approach
Our Regulation Action Plan set out our vision for ensuring that the regulatory system
supports growth, is targeted and proportionate, is transparent and predictable, and
adapts to keep pace with innovation. This will mean breaking down unnecessary
regulatory barriers, opening up opportunities for high-potential firms, and making
innovation easier.
Building on this, we will:
• Press ahead with root-and-branch reform of the system, including by reducing
the administrative costs of regulation by 25% by the end of this Parliament.
We are interrogating the costs of the UK’s regulatory regime, while delivering
targeted reforms to streamline or remove burdensome processes which hold back
growth and investment, including overhauling our planning system. Where new
regulation is necessary, we will ensure that costs on business are minimised, and
we will continue to champion alternatives to regulation.
• Prioritise regulatory reform for our frontier industries, both through sectorspecific interventions to refresh regulations and increase regulators’ capability
and agility, as set out in our Sector Plans, and by ensuring that our overarching
regulatory frameworks, competition regime, company law, and national security
processes support the competitiveness of these industries.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 75
The interventions
To progress these priorities, we are
committing to:
• Improve regulator performance
through stronger transparency and
accountability. We are working with
regulators to develop clear, time-bound
targets for processing authorisations
and to publish their performance
against these targets as well as their
other KPIs. Regulators will be expected
to stress-test these measures with
industry and report to government on
their plans for service improvement.
These will form part of a stronger
framework with greater accountability
for regulators, increased strategic
alignment with government priorities,
and input from experts.
• Make our regulatory system more
consistent and easier to navigate. To
do this we will:
− Streamline duties for UK regulators,
with a stronger focus on growth and
investment to increase dynamism
and enterprise, and to increase and
improve scrutiny of the effectiveness
of regulations. This will be informed
by the recent independent Corry
Review into Defra regulators to
assess whether Defra’s regulatory
landscape is fit for purpose in driving
both economic growth and
nature recovery.
− Merge or consolidate regulators
where it makes sense to do so,
reducing the number of interactions
required for businesses on any single
issue. This complements the Cabinet
Office review of public bodies to
reduce inefficiency. This work has
already begun: we will consult in
summer 2025 on consolidating the
Payment Systems Regulator and its
functions primarily within the
Financial Conduct Authority, and we
will bring the Gangmaster and
Labour Abuse Authority, the
Employment Agency Standards
Inspectorate and the Director of
Labour Market Enforcement into the
Fair Work Agency (FWA) so that there
is a single body responsible for
employment rights enforcement.
− Set out an updated approach to
economic regulation by the end of
2025, as outlined in the 10 Year
Infrastructure Strategy.
• Make our regulatory system focused
and proportionate, by strengthening
central government oversight of the
regulatory reform agenda through the
creation of a new unit in the Treasury
which will challenge unnecessary
regulation and support progress against
our commitment to reducing the
administrative costs of regulation by
25% by the end of this Parliament.
• Influence international standards to
reduce trade barriers and make it easier
for new and emerging technologies to
be commercialised. In particular, we will
work closely with the British Standards
Institution, and publish a strategy
setting out our approach to influencing
global digital standards.
76 Industrial Strategy
• Ensure that regulation supports and
keeps pace with innovation. The
Regulatory Innovation Office (RIO) is
central to our ambition to create a
pro-innovation regulatory environment.
The RIO tackles the biggest regulatory
obstacles to innovation in growthdriving sectors, enabling new
technology applications to reach the
market, driving change in regulators’
behaviour and attitudes to innovation,
and supporting economic growth.
• Make targeted regulatory changes to
support the IS-8, including:
− Refreshing the Zero Emissions Vehicle
mandate to reduce costs for
automotive manufacturers.
− Clarifying Anti-Money Laundering
and Know Your Customer
requirements to support the
Financial Services and Professional
and Business Services sectors.
− Streamlining the route to market for
medical products which have
already been approved
internationally.
− Reducing planning red-tape for heat
pump installation, including on size
and boundary requirements.
• Unlock the full potential of competition
to increase market dynamism and
economic growth. We have given a new
strategic steer to the Competition and
Markets Authority (CMA), setting a clear
expectation that it should promote
growth in the IS-8 and more widely. We
welcome the CMA’s engagement with
this programme, including its advice on
boosting competition and innovation in
the Defence sector. Looking ahead, we
will consult on further reforms, including
changes to merger jurisdiction tests to
create more certainty for business. We
will also consider introducing measures
to ensure the necessity of binding
market remedies is regularly reviewed,
and work with the CMA to improve the
markets regime as a whole.
• Adjusting which subsidies require CMA
scrutiny. In the summer 2025 we will
increase the threshold at which
subsidies must be referred to the CMA
for review, from £10 million to
£25 million. This will help the CMA to
focus on the largest subsidies with the
greatest potential impact, as well as
easing the administrative process and
timeframes required for delivering
comparatively smaller subsidies. For
some sensitive sectors the threshold will
remain at £5 million. We continue to
review the impact and proportionality of
the subsidy control regime, and the
CMA will publish its independent report
on the effectiveness of the
regime in 2026.
• Simplify corporate reporting
requirements and explore how to make
it easier for foreign companies to move
to the UK. We have committed to take
forward a wider range of measures to
streamline and modernise company law
and will publish a consultation on
streamlining non-financial reporting
requirements under the Companies Act
2006. We have also welcomed the
Independent Expert Panel’s report on
introducing a UK corporate redomiciliation regime and will consult on
how to design and implement
such a regime.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 77
The role of standards in self-driving vehicles
Since 2019 the British Standards Institution (BSI) has been working closely with the
Centre for Connected and Autonomous Vehicles to support the safe trialling,
development and future commercialisation of self-driving vehicles. This has involved
BSI working closely with trialling organisations, including Wayve, OXA, Horiba Mira
and WMG, to define good practice and prioritisation, and implement good practices
during their trials and development work.
Based on the website metrics provided by the BSI, the CAM series of standards has
gained interest globally, attracting over 10,000 downloads from over 75 countries,
and has informed the development of international (ISO) automotive standards,
showcasing the UK’s technical leadership. BSI’s standards have received attention
from the UNECE Road Safety Forum and are included in the reference literature for
global harmonised regulation.
BSI also worked with the Law Commission in advance of the Automated Vehicles Act
to demonstrate how standards can support emerging legislative, policy and safety
frameworks. This is vital to create a robust but innovative regulatory environment
that continues to attract investment and stimulates new services and growth. A
further growth opportunity from the work is the potential to share this knowledge
base and standards across other transport modes, such as maritime, aviation and
rail, all of which are exploring the benefits and challenges of integrating automated
systems, and to support the UK’s growing academic, technical expertise and
capability in the field.
78 Industrial Strategy
“We will press ahead with root-andbranch reform of the system, including
by strengthening central government
oversight to deliver our commitment to
reducing the administrative costs of
regulation by 25% by the end of this
Parliament.”
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 79
Removing planning barriers and
accelerating infrastructure
Infrastructure provides the foundations
high-growth sectors need to innovate,
grow, and compete globally. Digital
infrastructure is crucial for almost
every aspect of doing business and
will underpin the AI revolution. Energy
networks and renewable energy
developments are vital for energy
security and net zero and can have a
decisive impact on the competitiveness
of businesses across the economy.49
Businesses rely on transport
infrastructure to move their products
and access talent.
Investment in infrastructure is critical but
the UK has not seen enough of it. Too many
investors have a perception of the UK as a
place where it is hard to get anything built
– too slow, uncertain, and expensive.
Too few publicly funded projects have been
committed to and too few have been
completed. Demand for infrastructure is
rising but the ease of delivery needs to
improve. Policy uncertainty over the last 20
years has played a part, as has the
planning system, often acting as a blocker
to growth. According to Boston Consulting
Group, large infrastructure projects spend
an average of 65 months in preconstruction, and delivery time increased
by nearly two thirds between 2012 and
2021.50 Respondents to the formal Invest
2035 consultation told us that planning
permission, delays and complexity were a
barrier to investment in infrastructure.
80 Industrial Strategy
The approach
We are driving forward ambitious reforms to the planning system in England will get
Britain building, having set a target of building 1.5 million new homes and making
planning decisions on 150 major infrastructure projects by the end of this
Parliament.51 The Office for Budget Responsibility has forecast that housebuilding
measures set out in the National Planning Policy Framework (NPPF) will add
£6.8 billion to the economy by 2029/30.52 This is even before the reforms brought
forward through the Planning and Infrastructure Bill are factored in, which we
estimate could boost the economy by up to £7.5 billion over the next decade.53
We will:
• Ensure that the planning framework supports growth in our eight priority
sectors, as reflected in the revised NPPF. This prioritisation will be further
embedded when we consult on a set of national policies to guide planning
decisions later this year. We will work closely with the devolved governments to
ensure that our planning reforms positively impact growth across the nations.
• Provide greater certainty, confidence, and stability through our 10-Year
Infrastructure Strategy, ensuring that infrastructure is planned and designed well
and delivered quickly and efficiently to meet growing demand from
important sectors.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 81
The interventions
To deliver this we will:
• Fast-track more projects through the
planning process, by:
− Increasing certainty for
gigafactories, laboratories, and data
centres – crucial commercial
opportunities in the IS-8 – by
allowing them to ‘opt in’ to be
designated as Nationally Significant
Infrastructure Projects.
− Reducing the average preapplication period for major
infrastructure projects from two
years to 12 months by scrapping
overly burdensome consultation
requirements. This has the potential
to save projects £1 billion over the
course of this Parliament, benefiting
the IS-8 by accelerating delivery of
major transport and energy
infrastructure.54
− Launching a Call for Evidence on the
expansion of permitted
development rights to support
specific building works and speed up
the construction of our national
infrastructure, including fixed and
mobile networks and
electricity networks.
− Streamlining processes for judicial
reviews so that claimants have just
one attempt to challenge a
development consent decision for
claims deemed totally without merit,
rather than three.
− Establishing AI Growth Zones as
dedicated hubs to fast-track AI
infrastructure development, support
planning approvals, and unlock
access to energy.
• Make timely planning decisions, with a
13-week target for decisions made by
Ministers on called-in applications. This
is giving greater confidence to
businesses that decisions on highpriority developments, from solar farms
and data centres to housing and
transport, are being made speedily and
supported by a more strategic planning
policy framework.
• Improve the responsiveness of Local
Planning Authorities (LPAs). We are
providing funding for 300 new planning
officers and offering new flexibilities for
planning application fees to be set
locally so they cover the costs of the
service. We are also accelerating
digitalisation to encourage the
development and adoption of the next
generation of planning services. We
have worked with LPAs to co-create
user-friendly planning application
software to speed up planning
decisions. This includes PlanX services,
which have reduced both application
inaccuracies and the number of
planning-related calls by up to 60%.55
• Save developers time and money by
implementing a Nature Restoration
Fund which will mean that in many cases
they can make a single payment to
identify and meet their environmental
obligations related to protected sites
and species, reducing existing burdens
for the IS-8 (as well as other sectors)
82 Industrial Strategy
while delivering gains for nature. This
scheme is subject to the passage of the
Planning and Infrastructure Bill,
currently before Parliament.
• Provide long-term certainty on the UK’s
infrastructure needs and delivery, so
that investors can take long-term
decisions. We have set out our approach
in full in our 10-Year Infrastructure
Strategy, complementing our Industrial
Strategy, and in summer 2025 we will
publish a pipeline of infrastructure
projects that the Government is
prioritising. Under the National
Infrastructure Spatial Tool programme
we are also working to understand local
infrastructure needs, based on housing,
industrial growth, and land use
scenarios, to strengthen evidence for
place-based infrastructure investment
decisions. Future iterations of the tool
will provide a consistent means for
central and local government to test
how policies, strategies, and decisions
interact spatially with infrastructure and
to capture spatial trade-offs, with the
ambition of providing better evidence
on where infrastructure can make the
most significant contributions to
economic growth.
• Remove barriers to digital
infrastructure deployment, including by
implementing the outstanding
provisions in the Product Security and
Telecommunications Act 2022. We will
also bring forward a more flexible
permitting system for street works across
England if ongoing trials are successful,
make it easier to deploy broadband in
flats, and launch a Call for Evidence on
changes to planning laws that could
enable faster rollouts of fixed and
mobile coverage.
• Help business travellers be more
productive with improved Wi-Fi access.
By spending £41 million to introduce
low-earth-orbit satellite connectivity on
all mainline trains, we will significantly
improve both the availability and
internet connection speeds for Wi-Ficonnected passengers, in turn enabling
a better-integrated transport network.
• Improve connectivity by investing in
new transport infrastructure across
England and Wales during this Spending
Review period, with:
− Delivering major rail projects such as
East-West Rail, the Transpennine
Route Upgrade, HS2, and
infrastructure in Wales, and taking
forward work on Northern
Powerhouse Rail, as well as renewal
and maintenance of the
existing network.
− £24 billion of capital funding
between 2026-27 and 2029-30 to
maintain and improve motorways
and local roads across the country.
− £15.6 billion up to 2031/23 for some
of England’s largest city regions to
improve transport connectivity via
the Transport for City Regions
settlements, and £2.3 billion funding
for the Local Transport Grant to
improve transport connectivity in
smaller cities, towns, and rural areas.
− £900 million per year to maintain
and improve bus services. Illustrative
industry analysis suggests that public
investment in bus infrastructure and
services can generate returns of up
to £4.55 for every £1 invested.56
− £400 million to support the roll-out
of charging infrastructure across the
country, including to facilitate the
deployment of zero emission
vans and HGVs.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 83
Delivering a tax system
that supports growth
In addition to funding public services,
the tax system is an essential
component of growth and industrial
policy in the UK. Taxation plays a
significant role in influencing business,
consumer, and investor behaviour
by creating incentives to invest,
innovate and grow.
The UK has a competitive corporate tax
regime, with the lowest headline rate in the
G7 and generous tax support for
investment in physical and intangible
assets, R&D expenditure, and
commercialisation of patents.57 We will
continue to consider how the tax
environment can support the ambitions of
the Industrial Strategy, raise awareness of
the existing offer, and streamline the tax
system to support high-growth companies.
The approach
The Government already provides substantial support to the IS-8 through a
range of levers:
• An internationally competitive headline tax rate, supporting the UK’s
attractiveness as a destination for business investment and growth.
• World-leading capital allowances, including full expensing and the Annual
Investment Allowance, facilitating essential investment in growth-enhancing plant
and machinery.
• Significant R&D tax credits, which foster technological advancement, enhance
productivity, create high-skilled jobs, and help businesses gain a competitive
edge globally. Enhanced R&D credits also provide targeted support for researchintensive, loss-making small businesses and accommodate the longer investment
horizons of innovative ventures.
84 Industrial Strategy
• A competitive Patent Box regime, ensuring that UK businesses engaged in
innovation can benefit directly from their intellectual property.
• Investment schemes such as the Seed Enterprise Investment Scheme (SEIS),
Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS), and Venture Capital Trust (VCT) scheme,
which stimulate private investment into early-stage and high-growth potential
businesses, many within the IS-8.
• The Enterprise Management Incentive (EMI) Scheme, supporting businesses to
recruit and retain important skilled employees.
• A suite of generous tax reliefs for the creative sector, reinforcing the UK’s
position as a global leader and making significant contributions to both the
economy and culture.
• Businesses can also generally deduct the cost of training their staff when
calculating their corporate tax liability.
While reducing the cost of investing for
businesses is important, we have received a
wealth of feedback from industry
emphasising the need for a stable and
predictable tax environment, giving
businesses the confidence to make longterm, growth-enhancing investments.
We demonstrated our commitment to
providing certainty and stability through
publication of the Corporate Tax Roadmap
at Autumn Budget 2024.58 This includes a
commitment to cap the Corporation Tax
Rate at 25%, maintain the Small Profits
Rate and marginal relief at current rates
and thresholds, and maintain important
features such as Full Expensing, the Annual
Investment Allowance, R&D relief rates, and
the Patent Box.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 85
However, we recognise that more can be
done to reform and simplify the tax and
customs systems, to reduce burdens on
businesses and provide them with the
stability and certainty they need to make
long-term investment decisions and
continue importing and exporting. Recent
commitments have included 39 measures
to reduce administrative burdens on
business and modernise outdated elements
of the tax system and customs processes to
simplify the customer experience; and
targeted reforms to specific duties,
including modernisation of stamp taxes on
shares.59 Further, as part of a review of all
Arm’s Length Bodies, the functions of the
Valuation Office Agency, an Executive
Agency of HMRC, will be brought within
HMRC to improve the business experience
and increase efficiency.
The interventions
We are carefully considering the specific
feedback received and will explore the
merits of further change through
consultations and wider
industry engagement:
• In line with announcements made at
Spring Statement, the Government has
been meeting with important
stakeholders, including leading
entrepreneurs and venture capital firms,
to explore options to further foster a
positive, dynamic environment for
entrepreneurs and scale-ups.
• As set out in the Corporate Tax
Roadmap published at Autumn Budget
we have been consulting on a new
process that will give investors in major
projects increased advance certainty
about the tax that will apply.
• We will look across all available levers to
deliver change at the Budget in Autumn
2025 and across the Parliament,
including via continued consideration of
the tax environment to ensure it
supports the ambitions of the
Industrial Strategy.
86 Industrial Strategy
Corporate tax roadmap
The Roadmap makes commitments across the corporate tax system for this
Parliament. It sets out the key features that will keep the UK’s regime competitive
and supportive of investment, including:
Capping the headline
corporation tax rate at
25%
Maintaining the
generosity of the UK’s
R&D reliefs
Maintaining the UK’s
generous capital allowances
system, including permanent
full expensing and the £1m
Annual Investment Allowance
Consulting on
international
Corporation Tax issues
Preserving Patent Box
and the UK’s competitive
regime for intangible
fixed assets
Modernising tax
administration and easing
the burden on business
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 87
Wider support for sectors
Our Industrial Strategy focuses on
driving growth in the IS-8, informed
by our assessment of the specific
opportunities and barriers they
face. The measures set out above
are designed to ensure that the UK
has the most competitive business
environment for businesses in these
sectors to invest and raise capital,
and for new challengers to enter these
markets and push the frontiers. This
choice is fundamental to our approach.
Nonetheless, the Government has a
responsibility not just for the IS-8 but for
every industry in the UK. While we are
committed to backing the IS-8, as the best
way of driving sustainable, resilient, and
clean growth that improves living standards
across the UK, other sectors all have a role
to play in creating jobs, anchoring
communities, and strengthening
the economy.
Many of the barriers to investment for the
IS-8 are also an issue for other sectors, from
planning delays to regulatory uncertainty.
Unblocking them will make it quicker and
easier to do business in these sectors too.
Growth in the IS-8 will also produce spillover
benefits for the rest of the economy: to
provide just a few illustrations, growth in the
Creative Industries will create opportunities
for the hospitality and retail industries and
the visitor economy; new automation
pioneered and adopted in Advanced
Manufacturing will diffuse across the
manufacturing sector; and a Professional
and Business Services sector firing on all
cylinders will help businesses of all kinds to
increase productivity.
Beyond these benefits, the Government will
also continue to work with non-IS-8 sectors
directly. Sector sponsorship teams in
government will provide hands-on advice
and develop policies to help them thrive.
This will ensure that all businesses have
more opportunities to trade, access
finance, and innovate.
88 Industrial Strategy
Freight and logistics
The freight and logistics sector makes a vital contribution to the UK economy and the
competitiveness of the IS-8, ensuring that the right goods are in the right place at the
right time. With 76% of logistics employees based outside London and the South East,
the sector supports local economies and job creation across all four nations, with
major hubs in the Midlands and the central belt of Scotland. In 2023, it contributed
approximately £79.8 billion in GVA.60 Oxford Economics have estimated that in 2019
every pound of output from the freight and logistics sector generated £2 of spending
elsewhere in the economy, through supply chains and employee spending – one of
the highest economic footprints of any UK sector.61 They have also estimated that
productivity growth could be boosted by 20% if the UK were to become a global
leader in the sector. 62
The Government provides ongoing support to help freight and logistics businesses
overcome challenges, including transport bottlenecks and congestion, digital skills
shortages, and reliance on fossil fuels. We partner with DHL, DFDS, Port of Tyne,
Portsmouth International Port, Welch Group, Wincanton, and Veterans into Logistics
to support SME innovation through the Freight Innovation Fund accelerator.
Successes include Skyports, which participated in the first year of the Fund and now
delivers the UK’s first commercial drone mail service in Orkney, in partnership with
Royal Mail. Our Zero Emission HGV and Infrastructure Demonstrator programme is
rolling out hundreds of battery electric and hydrogen fuel cell HGVs, and new
charging and fuelling infrastructure, by March 2026. And our infrastructure upgrades
across the UK will significantly benefit the sector: an estimated 4.4 million HGVs are
expected to use the Lower Thames Crossing in its first year, following our decision to
grant development consent for the project.63 Working closely with industry, we will
deliver a new plan for freight and logistics later this year so that the sector can
continue to play its part in growing the economy.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 89
Endnotes
1 PWC (2025) 28th Annual global CEO survey
2 Department for Energy Security and Net Zero (2025) International industrial
energy prices
3 Department for Energy Security and Net Zero (2025) Industrial electricity prices in the
EU for small, medium, large and extra large consumers
4 Department for Energy Security and Net Zero (2025) International industrial
energy prices
5 UK Steel (2025) Industrial electricity prices
6 Department for Business and Trade (2024) Invest 2035: the UK’s modern industrial
strategy. For further information about the Invest 2035 consultation, see the
technical annex.
7 National Energy System Operator (2023) Connections Reform: final
recommendations report
8 National Energy System Operator (2024) Clean power 2030
9 CBI Economics (2025) The future is green: the economic opportunities brought by the
UK’s net zero economy
10 Department for Business and Trade (DBT) analysis of UNCTAD (2024) Merchandise
trade matrix, annual and Services (BPM6): Exports and imports by service-category,
trade partner, annual. Analysis covers 2013-2023 (latest available years), mapped to
industry sectors (excluding Defence and Clean Energy) using sector definitions from
Department for Business and Trade (2025) Global trade outlook, forthcoming
publication. USD converted to GBP using year average exchange rates, drawn from
Office for National Statistics (2025) Average Sterling exchange rate: US Dollar.
Aggregate growth was calculated keeping USD/GBP exchange rates constant.
11 Department for Business and Trade (2025) Global trade outlook, forthcoming
publication.
12 Department for Business and Trade (2025) UK-India trade deal: conclusion summary
13 Department for Business and Trade (2025) UK-Japan strategic economic policy and
trade dialogue – joint statement
14 World Economic Forum (2023) These are the world’s leading science and
technology hotspots
15 Department for Energy Security and Net Zero (2024) Government reignites
industrial heartlands
16 Department for Energy Security and Net Zero (2024) Government reignites
industrial heartlands
17 Department for Energy Security and Net Zero (2024) Civil nuclear: roadmap to 2050
18 Cogent Skills (2025) Nuclear workforce assessment
19 London Stock Exchange Group (2021) London: open to the world; British Business
Bank (2024) UK now the third largest venture capital market in the world, with biggest
increase in share of global investment; Department for Business and Trade (2025)
Overview of Greenfield foreign direct investment (FDI) 2003 to 2023.
90 Industrial Strategy
20 Dealroom (2025) The State of Global VC
21 Office for National Statistics (2023) Ownership of UK quoted shares: 2022
22 National Wealth Fund (2025) Financing the Future, a statement of intent by the
National Wealth Fund; British Business Bank (2025) The Power of 10: 10 Year Impact
Report; UK Export Finance (2023) UK Export Finance Annual Report and Accounts
2022 to 2023; UK Export Finance (2024) UK Export Finance Annual Report and
Accounts 2023 to 2024
23 Based on analysis by the Department for Science, Innovation and Technology of
International Monetary Fund (2024) World economic outlook; Office for Budget
Responsibility (2024) Economic and fiscal outlook. The baseline uses the OBR’s GDP
(2023) estimate with a 1.5% productivity estimate applied over a 10-year period. The
difference represents the additional GDP impact attributable to AI adoption with an
annual average £ figure provided. The analysis assumes a linear annual impact on
productivity, which may oversimplify economic dynamics. AI-driven productivity gains
may not lead to proportional increases in GDP or employment, particularly if labour
displacement outpaces job creation
24 Global University Venturing (2023) University spinouts doubled fundraising in the last
decade; QS Quacquarelli Symonds Limited (2025) QS World university rankings 2026:
Top global universities; World Population Review (2025) Nobel prizes by country. World
Intellectual Property Organization (2024) Which are the most innovative
economies in 2024?
25 Department for Science, Innovation, and Technology (2024) Horizon Europe
press release
26 UK Research and Innovation (2025) 2025-26 budget allocations for UK research
and innovation
27 Department for Business and Trade (2024) UK innovation survey 2023: report
28 UK Parliament (2024) Why is scaling-up still so hard in the UK? Lords committee
to investigate
29 Department for Business and Trade (2024) Invest 2035: the UK’s modern
industrial strategy
30 Department for Science, Innovation, and Technology (2025) The impact of technology
diffusions on growth and productivity
31 Department for Science, Innovation, and Technology (2025) The wider economic
impacts of emerging technologies in the UK
32 Office for National Statistics (ONS) (2025) Business insights and impact on the UK
economy; ONS (2023) Digital economy survey: 2021; International Federation of
Robotics (2024) Robot boom in the UK hits all-time high; Be the Business (2023)
Productive business index; Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development
(2024) Share of businesses purchasing cloud services
33 Department for Science, Innovation, and Technology (2024) Business data use and
productivity study (wave 1)
34 Department for Science, Innovation, and Technology (2024) Data use and access bill
NUAR impact assessment
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 91
35 Natural History Museum (2021) Digitising the entire museum collection could
contribute over £2bn to the global economy
36 Department for Science, Innovation, and Technology (2024) The UK data
driven market
37 Department for Science, Innovation, and Technology (2024) Data (use and access) bill
factsheet: growing the economy
38 Department for Education (2023) Skills and UK productivity; Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development (2021) The role of innovation and human
capital for the productivity of industries
39 Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development (2024) United Kingdom
– overview of the education system – attainment (2023); QS Quacquarelli Symonds
Limited (2025) QS World university rankings 2026: Top global universities
40 Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development (2021) The role of
innovation and human capital for the productivity of industries; Institute for Fiscal
Studies (2023) Investment in training and skills
41 Department for Business and Trade analysis of Department for Education (2025)
Apprenticeships: 2024-25
42 Department for Education (2022) Employer skills survey
43 Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (2024) United Kingdom:
Overview of the education system; Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (2022) Distribution of enrolled students, new entrants and graduates by
field of education.
44 Migration Advisory Committee (2025) Professionals in IT and engineering UCAS
(2024), Undergraduate end of cycle data resources - https://www.ucas.com/dataand-analysis/undergraduate-statistics-and-reports/ucas-undergraduate-end-cycledata-resources-2024
45 Department for Work and Pensions (2025) Universal credit statistics, 29 April 2013 to
10 April 2025; Department for Work and Pensions (2025) Get Britain
working white paper
46 HM Treasury (2025) New approach to ensure regulators and regulation
support growth
47 HM Treasury (2025) New approach to ensure regulators and regulation
support growtw
48 Department for Business and Trade (2022) Business perceptions survey
49 International Energy Agency (2024) World Energy Outlook; McKinsey (2021)
Opportunities for UK businesses in the net-zero transition
50 Boston Consulting Group (2024) Reshaping British Infrastructure: Global Lessons to
Improve Project Delivery; Department for Levelling Up, Housing, and Communities
(2023) Nationally significant infrastructure: action plan for reforms to the
planning process
51 HM Government (2024) Plan for Change: milestones for mission-led government
92 Industrial Strategy
52 Office for Budget Responsibility (2025) Economic and fiscal outlook
53 Department for Levelling Up, Housing, and Communities (2025) Planning and
infrastructure bill: impact assessment
54 Department for Levelling Up, Housing, and Communities (2025) Planning and
infrastructure bill: impact assessment
55 Department for Levelling Up, Housing, and Communities (2024) Digital planning
programme: our year in review
56 KPMG (2024) The economic impact of local bus services
57 HM Government analysis of Organisation of Economic Cooperation and
Development (2024) Corporate tax statistics
58 HM Treasury (2024) Corporate tax roadmap 2024
59 HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) (2025) Tax update spring 2025: simplification,
administration and reform summary
60 Department for Business and Trade analysis of Office for National Statistics (2025)
Annual Business Survey. Based on 4-digit SIC code categories: 4920, 4941, 4950,
5020, 5040, 5121, 5210, 5221, 5222, 5223, 5224, 5229, 5310, 5320.
61 Oxford Economics (2025) Logistics: Delivering a solution to the UK’s
productivity puzzle
62 Oxford Economics (2025) Logistics: Delivering a solution to the UK’s
productivity puzzle
63 National Highways (2023) Lower Thames Crossing 9.72 NTEM 8 and Common
Analytical Scenarios. Annual HGV figure estimated from traffic modelling figures
applying an annualisation factor.
Ease, speed, and long-term stability for business 93
Supporting the
UK’s city regions
and clusters
94 Industrial Strategy
National economic growth will only
come from increasing the productivity
of places across the UK, many of
which underperform relative to their
international comparators. The IS-8
are active in every nation and region
of the UK, but we cannot be placeblind: we must identify and accelerate
the highest-potential opportunities
in each, while tackling their specific
investment barriers. This will not only
strengthen the competitiveness of
the IS-8 but also improve the overall
resilience of the economy, with wellpaid jobs, thriving businesses, and
renewed local communities across
the country.
• City regions are the engines of the
modern economy. City centres are
where businesses, skilled workers, Higher
Education providers, and innovation
networks connect; and where
knowledge-intensive service sectors
flourish. In turn, they generate job
opportunities for people living in
surrounding towns.1
 The opportunities
and challenges of city regions differ
across the country:
− London is a magnet for global talent,
one of the world’s top two leading
international financial centre and
home to Europe’s leading start-up
ecosystem and some of the best
universities in the world.2
 The OxfordCambridge Growth Corridor is
anchored by two of the best
universities in the world and
contributes £40 billion to the
economy a year.3
 Our Industrial
Strategy will support their strengths
across the IS-8.
− City regions outside London have
enormous potential. To achieve this
we must tackle the issues which
businesses have told us are
constraining growth, including poor
transport connections, skills
shortages, and a lack of growth
finance and commercially viable
investment opportunities. This will be
a core focus of our Industrial
Strategy, with the objective of
realising the productivity potential of
city regions such as Belfast, Bristol,
Cardiff, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Greater
Manchester, Liverpool, the North
East, South Yorkshire, the West
Midlands, and West Yorkshire.
Raising productivity in these city
regions to national levels could add
over £90 billion to the UK
economy each year.4
• Industrial clusters support capitalintensive sectors, often with significant
demands for land and power. Clusters
across the UK are critical for the
competitiveness of the IS-8 and national
economic resilience – from maritime
autonomy in Plymouth to Aerospace in
North Wales and Northern Ireland, and
Clean Energy Industries in the Humber
and the Highlands. But businesses have
highlighted that many clusters are
constrained by a lack of grid
connections and investment-ready sites.
The Industrial Strategy is a UK-wide effort,
and we will ensure it generates
opportunities for the people and businesses
of Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland.
All three nations have a compelling offer
for investors in the IS-8, but previous
industrial strategies have not gone far
enough to meet their specific growth needs.
Supporting the UK’s city regions and clusters 95
The approach
We will:
• Focus our efforts on the city regions and clusters where the IS-8
concentrate, through:
− Targeted, sector-specific investments. Each of our Sector Plans sets out the
most important city regions and cluster for that sector, with interventions to
support them, from Health Innovation Zones to the £150 million Creative
Place Growth Fund, Professional and Business Services Hubs and support for
Electric Vehicle manufacturing.
− A package of interventions on skills, innovation, sites, investment promotion,
catalytic finance, and housing to help city regions and clusters attract private
investment, building on our wider reforms to the business environment set out
in Chapter 1.
− Partnership with devolved governments to ensure the Industrial Strategy
benefits people and businesses in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland,
building on the strengths of each nation and unblocking the main barriers to
growth. We will continue to respect devolved arrangements and coordinate
with devolved governments’ economic strategies, such as the Scottish
Government’s Programme for Government, the Welsh Government’s Economic
Mission, and the Northern Ireland Executive’s Programme for Government and
sectoral action plans. The Interministerial Group for Business and Industry,
reintroduced in January 2025, provides a focal point for engagement between
economic ministers from each nation.
− Joint working with Mayors and local authorities on shared priorities, aligning
our Industrial Strategy with 10-year Local Growth Plans.
• Strengthen connections between and within city regions and clusters, crowding
in and combining interventions for maximum impact. In a competitive global
environment, connectivity is a critical part of the UK’s place-based offer and
attractiveness to investors, creating the conditions and integration that increase
innovation, expand access to talent, and strengthen supply chains.
• Ensure that public investment in the nations and regions of the UK is given a fair
hearing. Following the review of the Green Book, the framework for considering
the costs, benefits, and trade-offs of government policy interventions, we will
simplify guidance and introduce ‘placed-based business cases’ that assess
multiple complementary projects – such as transport, housing, and commercial
developments – in a single place.
96 Industrial Strategy
The interventions
Bringing forward more
investible sites
We will:
• Launch a new Strategic Sites
Accelerator with over £600 million to
enable the Government to deploy a
range of interventions to bring sites to
market faster, such as land remediation,
anticipatory grid capacity, transport
improvements, and fast-tracked
planning approval. The first wave of
sites will be announced within a year,
with funding to start from 2026/27. It will
be a UK-wide programme, and we will
work with devolved governments, local
leaders, and Mayors to implement it in
England, Scotland, Wales and
Northern Ireland.
• Enhance our offer for Industrial
Strategy Zones. Freeports across the UK
have attracted £6.4 billion of
investment to date.5
 We are committed
to Freeports as well as Investment Zones
but recognise that we must do more to
make them a success. As set out in the
Action Plan published alongside our
Industrial Strategy and developed with
the devolved governments, we will
enhance all our Industrial Strategy
Zones with streamlined planning
processes, better-targeted investment
promotion, support for accessing
concessionary finance, and coordinated
support on skills. We are also working
with the Northern Ireland Executive to
establish an Enhanced Investment Zone
in Northern Ireland to build on its
sectoral strengths.
• Establish new AI Growth Zones across
the UK to attract investment in AI
infrastructure in strategic locations, with
support for planning approvals, access
to energy, and partnerships with the
private sector. The Government will
confirm locations in due course, and is
committed to delivering AI Growth
Zones in strategic locations
across the UK.
Supporting the UK’s city regions and clusters 97
Plymouth’s defence cluster
Plymouth and the surrounding area hosts a rich ecosystem of defence innovation
and collaboration and has been named as the National Centre for Marine Autonomy.
It is home to the University of Plymouth’s Cyber-SHIP lab, a £3.2 million hardwarebased research platform for maritime, information, and operational technology
research that is focusing on the future of marine autonomy and cybersecurity; Smart
Sound, the UK’s premier proving area for businesses to develop advanced marine
technologies, with over 1000 square kilometres of highly monitored and deconflicted
water; and Turnchapel Wharf, where a range of businesses continue to pioneer the
development, assessment, and certification of new autonomous systems. Meanwhile,
the Ministry of Defence is investing £4.4 billion in His Majesty’s Naval Base Devonport
over the next 10 years, highlighting the fundamental role Plymouth plays in the UK’s
defence and security, and Freeport status means that the area will continue to
benefit from HMG support and incentives.
Supporting city regions and clusters
to attract private investment
We will:
• Build national, regional, and local
capability to attract and land
investment. City regions and clusters
across the UK have significant
opportunities for investors but in some
cases their leadership teams lack the
expertise, capacity, or financial levers to
identify and develop credible
propositions of sufficient scale for
investors. To address this, we have
designed a series of investment
partnerships, giving city regions and
clusters the expertise and catalytic
financing to secure private investment
and to deliver Mayors’ Local
Growth Plans:
− The British Business Bank will
introduce a new Cluster Champions
programme in 10 places.
‘Champions’ with deep expertise and
local knowledge will coordinate
investment-readiness programmes,
strengthen financial networks, and
connect high-potential firms in the
IS-8 to investors in 10 city regions:
Greater Manchester, West Yorkshire,
the West Midlands, Liverpool City
Region, South Yorkshire, North East,
West of England, Glasgow City
Region, Cardiff City Region, and
Belfast City Region. This will be
underpinned by a £100 million
expansion of the BBB’s Nations and
Regions Investment Funds (NRIF), to
provide additional targeted capital
to back firms in these clusters. The
BBB will also expand NRIF with
£350 million to cover the South East
and East of England for the first time,
as well as investing in an Investor
Pathway Capital programme to grow
a more diverse pool of skilled fund
managers to raise larger funds and
invest in the IS-8.
98 Industrial Strategy
− The National Wealth Fund, which
already offers financing as well as
commercial advice to local and city
region authorities across the UK, is
trialling Strategic Partnerships with
Greater Manchester, West Yorkshire,
West Midlands, and Glasgow to
provide enhanced, hands-on support
to help these city regions develop
and secure long-term investment
opportunities.
− The Office for Investment will
establish a new national investment
partnership framework to help
Mayoral Strategic Authorities and
other places build their investment
capacity and capability. It will also
launch a new Strategic Investment
Opportunities team, which will work
with local leaders, devolved
governments, and their investment
agencies to help identify, shape and
deliver strategic investment
opportunities where there is scope
for significant private capital and
investor interest, with a particular
focus on areas prioritised in the
Infrastructure Strategy and
Industrial Strategy.
− Reforms to the Local Government
Pension Scheme in England and
Wales (LGPS) will strengthen its
existing focus on opportunities which
support local and regional growth,
such as Industrial Strategy Zones.
Administering authorities, of the 86
funds and make up the LGPS, which
have around £400 billion in assets
under management, will be required
to consider local growth priorities in
their investment strategies and to
work with Mayors in England and
Corporate Joint Committees in
Wales in support of regional
investment opportunities.
− Great British Energy, headquartered
in Aberdeen, will work with Mayoral
Strategic Authorities, local
authorities, community energy
groups, and devolved governments.
This includes providing funding and
support – from planning to strategic
advice – to help increase the roll-out
of renewable energy projects.
− UK Export Finance will expand its
network of Export Finance Managers
in city regions and clusters with
strengths in the IS-8. These will
support business development and
provide free and impartial advice to
businesses on their export
finance needs.
− The new National Housing Bank will
work with Mayors and local leaders
to develop financial support to
deliver local housing and
regeneration priorities,
complementing wider land and
grant funding.
• Build a stronger skills pipeline for local
employers. Skills England will support
employer representative bodies and
Mayors to develop Local Skills
Improvement Plans that will support
Local Growth Plans by identifying local
skills needs and the steps required to
address them. We are also creating
Technical Excellence Colleges to
specialise in training skilled workforces
for local businesses. We will provide
£200 million through the Skills Mission
Fund for further education providers in
England to invest in new facilities,
Supporting the UK’s city regions and clusters 99
equipment, technical qualifications, and
collaboration with other training
providers and employers. Our network
of 634 Jobcentres across Great Britain
and our new Jobs and Careers Service in
England – with its pathfinder pilot in
West Yorkshire – will also play an
important role in developing a pipeline
of workers for local employers
in the IS-8.
• Grow high-potential innovation
ecosystems through the Local
Innovation Partnerships Fund, which will
provide up to £500 million across the
UK. Clusters are the places where the
integration that increases innovation
happens, and this fund is designed to
generate £1 billion of co-investment and
add £700 million to local economies in
the Spending Review period including
through new jobs, products and
services.6
 Building on UK-wide public
R&D investment, and Innovate UK’s joint
action plans with devolved governments
and Mayoral Strategic Authorities
(MSAs), this earmarks at least
£30 million which will support the
delivery of Local Growth Plans in each of
England’s seven established MSAs:
Greater Manchester, West Midlands,
West Yorkshire, Liverpool City Region,
South Yorkshire, the North East, Greater
London, and, working with the devolved
governments, a place in each of
Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland.
The scheme will also include a
competition for clusters in all other parts
of the UK to bid for support to grow their
innovation ecosystems.
• Establish a new local growth fund,
including a 10-year capital settlement
from 2026-27 for specific mayoral city
regions in the North and Midlands with
the highest productivity catch-up and
agglomeration potential. In Scotland,
Wales, and Northern Ireland, funding
across this scheme and for communities
will be at the same overall level in cash
terms as under the UK Shared Prosperity
Fund, in 2025-26. The UK Government
will work in partnership with the
devolved governments to implement
this new programme.
• Review the recommendations put
forward by the New Towns Taskforce in
its report due in the coming months,
which will consider the location of
growth-driving sectors across England.
• Relocate Civil Service roles and 50% of
UK-based senior civil servants to towns
and cities across the UK to work with
frontline workers and local leaders. As
part of this, £244 million will be invested
to complete the development of new
government hubs. This includes the
Darlington Economic Campus in
Brunswick Street, the Manchester First
Street Hub, and the York Central Hub.
This investment will also help redevelop
these areas and provide a boost to their
regional economies.
Renewing our partnerships in
Scotland, Wales, and Northern
Ireland
As part of our partnerships with the
devolved governments:
• We will work closely with the Scottish and
Welsh Governments on the new
Connections Accelerator Service which
will support demand projects secure
100 Industrial Strategy
connections, including prioritising those
that guarantee high-quality jobs and
bring the greatest economic value
• The Local Innovation Partnerships
Funds will earmark at least £30 million
for a place in each nation, building on
UK-wide public R&D investment and
Innovate UK’s joint action plans with
devolved governments to grow highpotential innovation ecosystems. The
competitive part of the fund set out
above will also be open to areas in
Scotland, Wales, and Northern Ireland.
• The National Wealth Fund will work with
the Scottish National Investment Bank,
the Development Bank of Wales, and
the Northern Ireland Executive to
identify and secure the right financing
for investment projects in Scotland,
Wales, and Northern Ireland.
• British Business Bank Cluster
Champions will be appointed to clusters
in each nation crowd-in private
investment into high-potential projects
specific to growth-driving places.
• Skills England will work with devolved
governments to create a coherent and
accessible skills system for the IS-8
across the UK.
• Great British Energy will invest across
the UK, and GBE Local will work with
local communities to empower people
to generate their own energy, save
money on their energy bills, and reinvest
the savings where they are
most needed.
• Further place-based interventions will
drive growth in the nations, including
the Strategic Sites Accelerator
programme and our enhanced offer for
Industrial Strategy Zones (Investment
Zones and Freeports), alongside an
Enhanced Investment Zone in
Northern Ireland.
• Sector Plans have been shaped with
devolved governments. Sectoral
support includes:
− Defence Growth Deals to be agreed
in Scotland, Wales, and Northern
Ireland to leverage defence
investment to grow regional
industrial clusters.
− Sectoral funding programmes, which
will be available to businesses in all
three nations. These include the Life
Sciences Innovative Manufacturing
Fund, and funds for Automotive and
Aerospace. This would build on
recent successes, including from the
Automotive Transformation Fund to
secure Vishay’s £250 million
investment in the compound
semiconductor cluster in Newport;
and from the Aerospace Technology
Institute to secure ZeroAvia’s new
Hydrogen Centre of Excellence in the
Advanced Manufacturing Innovation
District Scotland (AMIDS).
• Cities and regions across the nations will
have the appropriate levers to realise
their economic potential. This can build
on existing, well-established and
collaborative governance structures,
such as City and Growth Deals and
Industrial Strategy Zones, which already
bring governments together with
leaders across local businesses,
academia, and the third sector to
increase regional economic growth.
Supporting the UK’s city regions and clusters 101
Strengths and opportunities in Scotland
Scotland is at the heart of the UK’s energy
transition, where there is a once-in-a
generation opportunity to build on worldclass skills and industrial infrastructure in oil
and gas to accelerate growth in the Clean
Energy Industries of the future. We are
supporting these industries with
development funding to advance the Acorn
Carbon Capture and Storage project,
capitalising on expertise in the oil and gas
sector around Aberdeen. A final investment
decision will be taken later this Parliament,
subject to project readiness and
affordability.
Scotland is globally competitive in Defence
and Advanced Manufacturing – where
Glasgow builds everything from the Cityclass Type 26 frigate to precisionengineered small satellites – while
Edinburgh has the largest Financial Services
sector in the UK outside London.7
 The
capital is also a leading centre for the
Creative Industries and home to the world’s
largest performing arts festival, while
Dundee thrives as a global video games
hub and rapidly growing Life Sciences
cluster. Meanwhile, Scotland’s elite
universities are driving video games
innovation across Quantum, Clean Energy
Industries, Life Sciences and many other
areas. Scotland has clusters of strength in
Professional Business Services, which we will
help grow through a new PBS skills hub in
the Central Belt; and we will fund skills
support through a new regional skills pilot
in Clean Energy Industries in Aberdeen.
Seizing opportunities across sectors will
require addressing the challenges
highlighted by businesses in Scotland, from
tech adoption and innovation readiness to
skills gaps, the need for greater support for
business scale-ups, and significant grid
connection waiting times and high
electricity prices for Scottish
energy projects.
102 Industrial Strategy
Strengths and opportunities in Wales
Wales is home to exceptionally strong
Advanced Manufacturing clusters, from
aeroplane wing production in the North to
compound semiconductor design and
manufacturing in the South, supported by
the new Centre for Integrative
Semiconductor Materials at Swansea
University and UK Government investment
in a new Centre for Doctoral Training, led
by Swansea University.
The top five Defence primes all have a
presence in Wales designing and building
cutting-edge products; the country hosts a
number of globally competitive Life
Sciences companies; it is a thriving centre
for the Creative Industries and it plays an
important role in the UK’s clean energy
transition, with opportunities for investment
in wind, hydrogen, and nuclear
technologies. However, businesses have
told us that they need more support to
ensure that talent is retained, private
capital is attracted on a greater scale, and
connectivity is improved, which is why we
are investing in Welsh innovation and
infrastructure, including at least
£445 million in Welsh rail enhancements
(see below).
Supporting the UK’s city regions and clusters 103
Strengths and opportunities in Northern Ireland
Northern Ireland has strengths across the
IS-8. Employment in its Advanced
Manufacturing sector has grown more than
four times faster than the UK average,
contributing over 10% to local GVA.8
 Its
vibrant Life Sciences sector of over 250
businesses and research institutions exports
globally to more than 140 countries,
supported by world-leading research
centres at Queen’s University Belfast and
Ulster University.9
 The Creative Industries
are flourishing, with the Belfast City Region
a global hub for film and television
production. Its defence sector is thriving,
with Thales in Belfast awarded a £1.6 billion
contract with UK Government backing to
produce over 5,000 Lightweight Multirole
Missiles for Ukraine and reinforce Northern
Ireland’s position in the global defence
supply chain.10 Northern Ireland also
benefits from access to the EU Single
Market under the UK-EU
Windsor Framework.
Underpinned by innovation and skills in
software engineering, Belfast’s
Cybersecurity cluster is a prime example of
Northern Ireland’s unique strengths.
Northern Ireland is home to over 100
Cybersecurity businesses, supporting
around 2,750 jobs with an average salary of
£53,300.11 Central to this is the Cyber-AI
Hub, a joint initiative between the UK
Government and Queen’s University,
Belfast, which promotes collaboration
between academia, the cybersecurity
sector, and other industries, including
Defence, Aerospace, and Financial
Services. PhD and MSc courses provided by
the Hub have created a pipeline of highly
skilled workers to sustain the cluster’s
growth, as well as strengths across
Northern Ireland, in Derry/Londonderry,
Omagh, Antrim, and beyond.
104 Industrial Strategy
Supporting Mayors and local
authorities in England
Across England, MSAs are developing
ambitious Local Growth Plans (LGPs), which
will be published following the Spending
Review. These plans will articulate a 10-year
vision for growth, setting out their region’s
unique strengths, identifying shared
priorities of national importance to be
taken forwardly jointly with the UK
Government, and showcasing the most
attractive opportunities for private sector
investment. They will dovetail with our
Industrial Strategy Sector Plans –
highlighting the connections between local
and national initiatives to support the IS-8.
We will back Mayors to implement their
plans by giving them more powers over
strategic planning, business support, skills,
and transport, underpinned by flexible
Integrated Settlements, where applicable,
and other devolved funding. We will also:
• Make a new £500 million Mayoral
Recyclable Growth Fund available to
Mayors in the North and Midlands with
an integrated settlement, allowing them
to provide financial investments for
growth projects. Working with local
authorities, Mayors will be able to use
this funding to break down access-tofinance barriers and create new
opportunities for businesses to grow by
providing patient capital for projects
such as major city-centre developments
and strategic industrial sites.
• Invest in high streets, recognising that a
thriving everyday economy is the
bedrock of local economies. Through
new High Street and Growth Incubators,
we will target funding at a selection of
Established MSAs, via integrated
settlements, to support high streets,
trigger further private property
investment, and support businesses to
adapt and grow.
Local authorities across England have a
critical role to play in supporting their
areas’ strengths in the IS-8. We will work
with them to deliver the interventions set
out in our Industrial Strategy, from
maximising the potential of Industrial
Strategy Zones to identifying, developing,
and securing the right finance for investible
projects in city centres and strategic
industrial sites.
Supporting the UK’s city regions and clusters 105
Unleashing the potential
of our cities and regions
106 Industrial Strategy
Supporting the UK’s city regions and clusters 107
108 Industrial Strategy
Strengthening connections between
and within city regions and clusters
We will connect and support a growth
corridor across our Northern city regions,
bringing together investments in transport
with action to boost its strengths in the IS-8
and unlock transformative private
investments. We will do this through the
following ambitious interventions, and will
set out further plans in due course:
• Boosting connectivity within and
between city regions by:
− Improving rail connectivity across
the North of England. This starts by
completing delivery of the
TransPennine Route Upgrade, which
will transform rail connectivity
between Manchester and York.
Government has provided
£3.5 billion through this settlement
from 2026/27 to 2029/30 to drive this
forward at pace. We recognise that
this is not the final answer, and we
will be providing funding to progress
this government’s long-term
strategic rail ambitions in the North.
The Government will set out plans to
take forward its further ambitions on
Northern Powerhouse Rail in the
coming weeks.
− Transforming intra-city connectivity
through over £10 billion in Transport
for City Regions funding across six of
the North’s MSAs, supporting
schemes such as West Yorkshire Mass
Transit, Greater Manchester’s Bee
Network, and the extension of the
existing Metro network in the North
East – serving one of the largest
Advanced Manufacturing
zones in the UK.
− Improving and maintaining the
North’s road networks via the
£24 billion of capital funding
between 2026-27 and 2029-30 that
has been allocated to National
Highways and local authorities to
maintain and improve motorways
and local roads across the country.
This includes creating a new
Structures Fund that will repair major
structures like bridges, flyovers and
collapsed roads.
• Boosting Northern city regions and
clusters strengths in the IS-8. The
region is home to world-class universities
and a number of nationally significant
clusters, including Financial Services in
West Yorkshire, the ‘supercluster’ of Life
Sciences and Digital and Technology
businesses in Liverpool, Manchester,
and Cheshire, South Yorkshire’s role as
an industrial heartland for Defence and
Advanced Manufacturing, and Clean
Energy Industries across the Humber,
Tees Valley and North East.22 We will
support these through:
− At least £150 million from the Local
Innovation Partnerships Fund across
Greater Manchester, Liverpool City
Region, South Yorkshire, North East,
and West Yorkshire, along with new
British Business Bank Cluster
Champions for each.
− A share of £150 million from the new
Creative Place Growth Fund to
support Creative Industries in
Greater Manchester, Liverpool City
Region, the North East, and West
Yorkshire. We will also support the
One Creative North partnership of
Supporting the UK’s city regions and clusters 109
northern Mayors and creative
leaders to collaborate on access to
finance, skills, and innovation.
− New Professional and Business
Services Hubs in Greater Manchester,
Liverpool City Region, and West
Yorkshire, and piloting Made Smarter
for Professional and Business
Services across the North of England.
− Exploring a pilot initiative in
partnership with the North East
Combined Authority for an Electric
Vehicles manufacturing cluster,
creating a blueprint for unlocking
other clusters of excellence in other
key growth areas across the UK.
• Developing investible opportunities
across the North. The National Wealth
Fund will deliver Strategic Partnerships
with Greater Manchester and West
Yorkshire to provide enhanced, handson support to help regions develop and
secure long-term investment
opportunities. The Office for Investment
will – building on its previous work with
Liverpool City Region and the North
East – partner with the North’s Mayoral
Strategic Authorities to help identify,
shape and deliver strategic projects to
ensure they are best placed to leverage
private capital.
We will deepen our support for the Oxford
Cambridge Growth Corridor and its
strengths in Digital and Technologies, Life
Sciences, Defence, Advanced
Manufacturing, and Clean Energy
Industries, anchored by two of the best
universities in the world.23 Accounting for
7% of GDP and contributing £40 billion to
the economy a year,24 we will unlock its
potential by:
• Taking forward major housing and
infrastructure projects to make it easier
to live, work, and travel across the
Corridor. This will include:
− East-West Rail, a major new crosscountry rail line cutting journey times
significantly between Oxford and
Cambridge. This will enable delivery
of up to 100,000 new homes, create
thousands of new jobs by expanding
the commuting populations of
economic centres across the
corridor, and add £6.7 billion a year
to regional GVA by 2050.25 The first
phase will launch later this year and
enable direct rail travel between
Oxford and Milton Keynes for the
first time in nearly 60 years.
− A new East Coast Mainline station at
Tempsford, integrating the Corridor
into one of the UK’s busiest rail
routes between London
to Edinburgh.
− Ensuring that water companies build
new reservoirs in areas around
Cambridge (the Fens) and Oxford
(Abingdon) so that industrial and
residential developments are not
held back due to pressures on water
availability.
110 Industrial Strategy
• Strengthening the region’s science and
technology credentials through the
UK’s first AI Growth Zone in Culham,
Oxfordshire, confirmed as the first site
for our new flagship programme to
facilitate AI infrastructure and unlock
investment in AI-enabled data centres.
• Exploring how to strengthen
collaboration between the Oxford
Cambridge Growth Corridor and other
parts of the UK with complementary
strengths. This will build on recent
government investment in the
Cambridge x Manchester Innovation
Partnership.
• Addressing the shortage of high-quality
research facilities caused by
consistently high demand for R&D
space. We will fund the Cambridge
Growth Company to invest in
infrastructure to unlock housing and
commercial development, enter into
partnerships with the private sector, and
work with local partners on
infrastructure delivery, with more details
to be set out shortly. The Oxford Growth
Commission will also develop a longterm investment strategy.
We will also promote connectivity across
cities, regions, and nations, including by:
• Working with the Scottish Government
to support the Edinburgh-Glasgow
Central Belt. Edinburgh and Glasgow’s
businesses and universities are wellconnected by road and rail links
connecting the east and west coast.
Innovation is at the heart of the Central
Belt’s economy, with UK Quantum Hubs
in both Edinburgh and Glasgow, the
Advanced Manufacturing Innovation
District Scotland, and Edinburgh’s
National Robotarium. In partnership
with the Scottish Government, we will
build on established City and Growth
Deals and support sites designated as
Industrial Strategy Zones. Our
investment of up to £750 million in a
new supercomputer at the University of
Edinburgh – largest in the UK – will also
strengthen an already world-class
Digital and Technology cluster.
• Delivering HS2 and maximising its
growth benefits. HS2 will provide faster,
more frequent, and more reliable rail
services between London and
Birmingham. We will work with
businesses and local leaders so that
development unlocks large-scale
commercial sites along the route,
including a new Life Sciences hub at
Euston and a transformational project
at Birmingham Curzon Street. Research
suggests that HS2 could lead to 41,000
new homes in the West Midlands and
22,000 new homes around the new
station in Old Oak Common in West
London, while training a skilled
workforce for the wider rail and
construction industries (with over 33,000
jobs and 1,700 apprenticeships currently
supported).26
• Improving rail connectivity between
city regions and clusters in Wales and
England. We will invest at least
£445 million to enhance rail networks in
Wales to increase Welsh growth and
boost links between:
Supporting the UK’s city regions and clusters 111
− Wrexham and Merseyside, through
an upgrade to the Padeswood
sidings and the permanent closure of
several level crossings on the North
Wales Main Line. This will link two
centres of excellence in Advanced
Manufacturing, anchored by Airbus’s
Broughton factory, R&D facilities
such as AMRC Cymru, and two
Industrial Strategy Zones – and in
turn connect North Wales and the
corridor across our Northern English
city regions.
− South Wales and Bristol, through new
stations between Cardiff and the
Severn Tunnel. This will create further
opportunities for the IS-8 clusters
along the corridor, complementing
wider government support, including
for the Celtic Freeport and Cardiff
and Newport Investment Zone and a
new Centre for Doctoral Training led
by Swansea University focused on
semiconductors.
112 Industrial Strategy
Endnotes
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
1 Centre for Cities (2025) The myth of “left behind”: Why a city-focused industrial strategy
will not increase place-based discontent.
2 Z/Yen (2025) Global financial centres index 37; Startup Genome (2024) The global startup
ecosystem report 2024; QS World University Rankings (2025) Top global universities.
3 Oxford-Cambridge Supercluster (2025) Unlocking the potential of the Ox-Cam
supercluster.
4 Department for Business and Trade analysis of Office for National Statistics
(2024) Subregional productivity: labour productivity indices by city region and Office for
National Statistics (2025) Regional Gross Value Added (balanced) by industry: city and
enterprise regions. The figure of a £90bn potential gain is arrived at by calculating the
difference between productivity in these city regions and the UK average and multiplying
that by employment in the city regions. The figure was calculated using employment and
productivity data for 2023 and is expressed in 2022 prices.
5 UK Freeports (2024) Freeports backed in autumn budget.
6 UKRI (2025) New fund will focus research investment on local priorities.
7 City of London Corporation (2019) Financial services hubs around the UK.
8 Invest Northern Ireland (2025) Advanced manufacturing and engineering.
9 Invest Northern Ireland (2025) Life and health sciences.
10 Ministry of Defence (2025) Historic £1.6bn deal provides thousands of air defence missiles
for Ukraine and boosts UK jobs and growth.
11 Centre for Secure Information Technologies (2024) Northern Ireland cyber
security snapshot.
12 Office for National Statistics (2025) Regional gross domestic product.
13 Z/Yen (2025) Global Financial Centres Index 37.
14 Dealroom.co (2025).
15 Startup Genome (2024) The Global Startup Ecosystem Report 2024.
16 MedCity (2024) Life Sciences Global Cities Comparison 2024.
17 Times Higher Education (2025) Best Universities in the UK 2025.
18 Office for National Statistics (2025), Regional gross domestic product
19 Liverpool City Region Combined Authority (2024) Millions of pounds of funding unlocked
as Liverpool City Region Investment Zone opens for business.
20 GOV.UK (2025) Scotland to host UK’s national supercomputer as Chancellor confirms
£750 million investment.
21 Octopus Ventures (2023) Gateways to Growth Entrepreneurial Impact Report 2023.
22 QS World University Rankings (2025) Top global universities.
23 QS World University Rankings (2025) Top global universities.
24 Oxford-Cambridge Supercluster (2025) Unlocking the potential of the Ox-Cam
supercluster.
25 Department for Transport (2018) The case for East West Rail, western section phase 2;
Department for Transport (2024) East West Rail to boost Oxford-Cambridge region
by billions.
26 Arcadis (2025) HS2 Impact Study: Demonstrating the economic impacts secured by HS2
and Department for Transport (2024) HS2 6-monthly report to Parliament:
December 2024.
Supporting the UK’s city regions and clusters 113
Supporting our
frontier industries
114 Industrial Strategy
Our new economic approach is
founded on supporting high-growth
sectors across the UK’s strengths in
both manufacturing and services.
For the first time, the whole of
government is backing eight sectors
which represent 32% of the economy:
Advanced Manufacturing, Clean
Energy Industries, Creative Industries,
Defence, Digital and Technologies,
Financial Services, Life Sciences, and
Professional and Business Services.1
Strategies involve making choices. We have
chosen to focus on these sectors because
they are the best positioned to drive
inclusive, sustainable, and resilient growth,
thanks to their potential to create well-paid
jobs across the UK, seize the opportunities
of the net zero transition, and build
superstar firms so the UK can project global
influence and deter our adversaries.
We have ambitious 10-year plans to make
the UK the best place to start and scale in
these sectors, with homegrown champions
to create a national renewal that benefits
the whole country. We are delivering these
plans through partnership between
government, industry, and workers,
underpinned by productive private
investment, targeted government
investment, and an activist agenda to
make it easier and quicker to do business.
But our Industrial Strategy is not eight
separate plans: it is a long-term vision to
benefit the whole economy, backing our
sectoral strengths to be more than the sum
of their parts. The increasingly blurred
boundaries between sectors in the modern
economy mean that faster growth in our
frontier industries will have significant
spillover benefits for other sectors. The
Financial Services sector, for instance, is the
heart of business investment and stability;
Professional and Business Services firms
play a critical role in helping businesses of
all kinds to become more productive
and resilient.
Most importantly, by making our growthdriving sectors more competitive, we will
create prosperity not just for the people
who work in them, but for families across
the UK – including through the benefits of a
stronger ‘real economy’ supported by the
Financial Services sector, secure
homegrown clean energy provided by the
Clean Energy Industries, and rapid access
to the most effective new medical
technologies developed by Life
Sciences businesses.
To achieve this will take all our agility,
vision, and industrial policy levers: we must
create the conditions for private investment
in high-risk, high-reward technologies and
drive innovation pull-through, especially
from the Defence sector. We must do more
to help businesses navigate an uncertain
and changing world, and become more
confident technology adopters as AI and
future innovations transform the way we
work and live. And we must remain alive to
the risks to growth posed by climate
change and nature degradation, exploring
how circular practices like re-use and
recycling can boost resilient supply chains
and reduce the environmental impact of
resource extraction, with more detail to
follow in our Circular Economy Strategy due
to be published in autumn 2025.
Supporting our frontier industries 115
The Industrial Strategy’s Growth Driving
Sectors and the Frontier Industries within them
Advanced Manufacturing
• Aerospace
• Advanced Materials
• Agri-tech
• Automotive
• Batteries
• Space
Clean Energy Industries
• Wind (Onshore, Offshore and
Floating Offshore)
• Fusion Energy
• Nuclear Fission
• Hydrogen
• Carbon Capture Usage and
Storage (CCUS),
including Greenhouse
Gas removals
• Heat Pumps
Creative
Industries
• Advertising and Marketing
• Film and TV
• Video Games
• Music, Performing and
Visual Arts
Defence
• Drones and
Autonomous Systems
• Combat Air
• Directed energy weapons
• Complex weapons
• Maritime
capabilities
Digital and
Technologies
• Artificial intelligence
• Engineering Biology
• Advanced Connectivity
Technologies
• Quantum Technologies
• Semiconductors
• Cyber Security
Financial Services
• FinTech
• Insurance and
Reinsurance Markets
• Sustainable Finance
• Capital Markets
• Asset Management and
Wholesale Service
Life Sciences
• Pharmaceuticals
• Medical Technologies
(MedTech)
Professional and
Business Services
• Accountancy, Audit, and Tax
• Management Consultancy
• Legal Services
116 Industrial Strategy
Advanced Manufacturing
The ingenuity of the UK’s Advanced
Manufacturing sector puts it at the
centre of the great challenges of
this century. Decarbonisation, the
AI revolution, and increasing global
focus on economic resilience are
creating unprecedented commercial
opportunities for companies at the
frontiers as well as those who are
fastest to commercialise the latest
innovations. The UK is well-positioned
to capitalise on these opportunities,
with world-leading primes, innovative
smaller businesses, a vibrant research
ecosystem, collaboration between
academia and industry, and expertise
in a range of fields from precision
engineering and 3-D printing to
lightweight materials.
But the sector is also particularly exposed
in an era of escalating security threats,
protectionism, technological rivalry and
energy volatility. Only through partnership
between government and industry will we
insulate the sector from these global
headwinds and attract the transformative
investment needed to automate, build
resilience and develop cutting-edge skills.
By 2035 the UK will be the best place in the
world to start, grow, and invest in Advanced
Manufacturing. Our ambition by 2035 is to
have nearly doubled annual business
investment in the sector from £21 billion to
£39 billion, driving growth across
the economy.
Supporting our frontier industries 117
The approach
We will:
• Reform the business environment so that the Advanced Manufacturing sector
has the long-term certainty, stability and ease of doing business to:
− Build resilience, with reduced industrial electricity costs and strengthened
supply chains.
− Scale up innovation and automation, with increased deployment of
state-of-the-art technologies, industrial robotics, AI, digital twins, and
Internet of Things.
− Develop a dynamic and digitally literate workforce, with a new generation of
tech adopters.
• Prioritise frontier manufacturing industries with the greatest growth potential:
− Automotive, with our record of innovation in propulsion, energy systems, and
driverless technologies giving the UK a competitive edge in the transition to
Zero Emission Vehicles (ZEV) and Connected and Autonomous Mobility (CAM).2
− Batteries – with our thriving research base and start-up ecosystem
continuously pioneering new technologies as global demand for sustainable
and secure power sources ramps up.3
− Aerospace – with our expertise in jet engines, wings, and advanced systems
for large commercial aircraft putting the sector in a strong position to
capitalise on demand as the next generation of planes is developed.4
− Space – with our leadership as a spacefaring nation and our international
partnerships helping the UK secure advantages in areas critical to defence
and growth.
− Advanced Materials – with the 2,700 active companies in the UK poised to
seize opportunities created by growing demand from other sectors, from
Clean Energy Industries to Digital and Technologies.5
− Agri-Tech – with our strengths in precision technologies tapping into the
market for solutions to boost productivity, build climate resilience, and reduce
emissions in the agriculture sector.6
• Support Advanced Manufacturing clusters across the UK, with 84% of jobs
located outside London and the South East and strong concentrations of
businesses in Glasgow and Edinburgh; the North East; Belfast; Yorkshire; the
North West; Wrexham and Flintshire; East Midlands; West Midlands; South West;
and the Oxford to Cambridge Corridor.7
• Partner with industry to implement the Plan, including through marching funding
commitments and joint industry-government groups such as the Automotive
Council, UK Battery Strategy Taskforce, and Space Industry Advisory Group.
118 Industrial Strategy
The interventions
We will:
• Reduce electricity costs for the energyintensive manufacturers by increasing
discounts through the British Industry
Supercharger and creating a new
British Industrial Competitiveness
Scheme for specific
manufacturing industries.
• Strengthen supply chains by supporting
foundational industries vital to the
competitiveness of Advanced
Manufacturing businesses, including
through a billion Steel Strategy in
summer 2025 and an enhancement of
the Critical Minerals Intelligence Centre
to improve its horizon scanning
capabilities.
• Drive innovation and
commercialisation in our frontier
industries by committing up to
£4.3 billion in funding for the Advanced
Manufacturing sector, including up to
2.8 billion in R&D funding programmes
over the next 5 years.
• Accelerate the uptake of robotics and
‘lean processes’ through an expansion
of our Made Smarter Adoption
programme for SMEs and initial funding
of £40 million for a new network for
Robotics Adoption Hubs across the UK.
• Build the sector’s skills base through
wider reforms to the skills system in
England and by launching a new
Upskilling and Reskilling Programme
specific to Advanced Manufacturing
businesses, which will address the need
for short courses for the workforce.
• Make targeted regulatory changes to
boost growth in frontier industries,
including by bringing the Automated
Vehicles Act fully into force and creating
a clear route to market for new
pioneering vehicles, including
delivery robots.
• Support clusters by:
− Collaborating with Mayoral Strategic
Authorities and local authorities to
support electric vehicle
manufacturing, including exploring
pilot initiatives in the North East and
West Midlands to create a blueprint
for developing clusters of excellence
across the UK.
− Backing our network of Industrial
Strategy Zones (Investment Zones
and Freeports) with over £160 million
in funding over 10 years to stimulate
growth, including Glasgow, Greater
Manchester, the North East, South
Yorkshire, West Midlands, East
Midlands, and Wrexham & Flintshire.
Supporting our frontier industries 119
Clean Energy Industries
Delivery of our Clean Energy
Superpower Mission will create
significant investment and job creation
opportunities across the country. We
are a coastal nation, a scientific and
innovation superpower, with strengths
in high-value manufacturing and a
skilled energy workforce to match. With
our world-leading renewable energy
deployment, and deep capital markets,
Britain is the natural destination for
the manufacturing and deployment
investment that will have significant
spillover benefits for innovation,
services, and skills across the country,
leveraging the clean energy transition
to drive economy growth.
Clean Energy investors are clear that they
want to grow in the UK and to invest billions
here, but they cannot do this on their own.
They need certainty, stability, and a partner
to take the first step with them in
developing new technologies and supply
chains. Our Clean Energy Industries Sector
Plan provides this, with clarity of mission,
catalytic public investment, action to break
down barriers, and support for the skilled
workforce needed.
By 2035 our ambition is for the UK to have
at least doubled investment in frontier
Clean Energy Industries to over £30 billion
per year, creating hundreds of thousands
of good jobs at good wages across the
country, supported by strong trade union
recognition. The clean energy transition will
be built with British industry, and we will
become a world-leading exporter of lowcarbon products, services, and innovation.
Through partnership between industry,
unions and the Government, we are setting
a long-term, ambitious vision, with
significant commitments and effective
prioritisation on where we collectively focus
our efforts.
120 Industrial Strategy
The approach
To deliver this ambition we will:
• Reform the business environment to build resilience, harness innovation, and
reduce the cost of clean energy investment into our clean energy supply chains.
• Double down on frontier clean energy industries with the greatest
growth potential:
− Wind (Onshore, Offshore and Floating Offshore) – with onshore wind unlocked
in England, the second highest offshore deployment in the world, first and
largest grid-connected floating offshore wind farm, and, as set out in the
industry-led Offshore Wind Industrial Growth Plan, the UK has a comparative
advantage across the production and testing of advanced turbine
technologies.8
− Nuclear Fission – with a thriving supply chain developing around a fully
funded Sizewell C, a route to market for Advanced Modular Reactors, and
ambition to roll out a fleet of Small Modular Reactors, we are putting the UK
in a strong position to design and develop the next generation of
nuclear tech.
− Fusion Energy – with advanced research and talent, nurtured by the world’s
largest fusion organisation, the UK Atomic Energy Authority, putting the UK on
a path to creating a commercialised fusion reactor by 2040.
− Carbon Capture Usage and Storage (CCUS), including Greenhouse Gas
removals – with the UK’s significant CO2
 storage potential, wealth of
transferable skills from the oil and gas industry, and robust regulatory and
project support creating the conditions for the UK to become the CO2
 storage
hub of Europe and support foundational industries.9
− Hydrogen – with our early mover advantage in critical elements such as
electrolysers and engineering services set to create a thriving hydrogen
economy in the UK.
− Heat Pumps – with potentially one of the largest domestic markets in Europe,
a skilled domestic heating workforce, and an undersupply in the global
market relative to projected demand creating significant opportunities for the
UK’s manufacturing base to expand and export to the world.10
Supporting our frontier industries 121
• Support electricity networks as a foundational enabler to growth, building on
thriving domestic supply chains to create jobs and capture domestic and global
opportunities through our ambitious deployment plans, reforming the
connections process and ensuring the sector benefits from public finance
institutional support.
• Utilise the skills of our existing energy workforce and give a new lease of life to
industrial and coastal communities, benefiting every nation and region of the UK.
• Deliver joint commitments from both government and industry as partners, and
work hand-in-hand with trade unions to create high-quality jobs.
The interventions
To incentivise investment and ensure the
net zero transition works for people across
the UK, we will:
• Provide a clear mission to drive
investment certainty, with long-term
deployment plans for key technologies
and updates to regulations to
support growth.
• Deliver targeted and catalytic funding
to support jobs, innovation and growth
including through:
− A new £1 billion Clean Energy Supply
Chain Fund under Great British
Energy, including £300 million to
invest in offshore wind supply chains.
− Our £544 million Clean Industry
Bonus for offshore wind developers.
− £14.2 billion of funding for Sizewell C
in this Spending Review period and
over £2.5 billion for Small
Modular Reactors.
− £2.5 billion of investment in fusion
over the next five years.
− £9.4 billion in capital budgets to
support the development of CCUS
projects up to 2029.
− We have confirmed £13.2 billion of
funding for the Warm Homes Plan,
and we are launching a further
round of the Heat Pump Investment
Accelerator Competition, providing
grants to manufacturers to invest in
new capacity.
122 Industrial Strategy
• Break down barriers to investment.
We are removing blockers in the
planning system via the Planning &
Infrastructure Bill and National Policy
Statements. We will ensure delivery of
key infrastructure, particularly grids,
ports, rail and road.
• Ensure we have the skilled workforce
we need, creating good quality jobs and
placing them at the heart of the clean
energy future. The upcoming Clean
Energy Workforce Strategy will ensure
that jobs are not only abundant, but
also of high quality, focusing on fair pay,
favourable terms, and good
working conditions.
• Collaborate internationally to diversify
supply chains, with UK Export Finance
aiming to support £10 billion of clean
growth finance between 2024 and 2029,
and through our actions on the world
stage, including as the driving force
behind a new Global Clean
Power Alliance.
• Back our network of Investment Zones
with £160 million in funding over 10 years
to stimulate growth in key Clean Energy
clusters, including in North East
Scotland, North East England, South
Yorkshire and the East Midlands and
West Midlands.
Supporting our frontier industries 123
Creative Industries
The UK’s cultural and creative
excellence, recognised across the
world, is a major creator of economic
growth. Over the last decade the
sector has increased its output more
than 1.5 times the rate of the rest of
the economy. We export more books
than any other country, are the
second largest art market in the world,
and have the largest video games
industry in Europe.11 Our advertising
companies sell their services across
the world and many of the mostwatched streaming shows were
made in the UK in our world-famous
studios. In an era of unprecedented
global demand for content, the UK
has an unparalleled advantage, built
on strong foundations: the creative
engine of the BBC and our public
service media, a deep well of creative
talent, thriving innovation, and a
stable regulatory environment.
Technologies like Extended Reality (XR) and
powerful new data analytics are already
transforming the sector. Constant
innovation will be needed for the UK to stay
ahead of the game, but despite its higher
R&D intensity than other services, its high
proportion of SMEs struggle to access
growth finance, raise capital to invest in
technology, and establish links with
universities.12 Despite our well-earned
reputation for talent, skills shortages
persist, limiting growth. And the advent of
AI brings opportunities but we must also
ensure we value, protect, and empower
content creators.
By focusing on these issues, our ambition is
to significantly increase business
investment by the Creative Industries from
£17 billion to £31 billion by 2035 to enhance
the UK’s position as a global creative
superpower and the number one
destination worldwide for investment in
creativity and innovation.
124 Industrial Strategy
The approach
We will:
• Transform the business environment to:
− Accelerate innovation by significantly increasing public and private
investment in R&D, driving the disruptive potential of Createch, and ensuring
that the value of creative intellectual property is recognised.
− Improve access to finance for creative start-ups and scale-ups, addressing
investors’ risk aversion and ensuring growth capital is available.
− Grow the long-term skills pipeline, responding to the sector’s needs and
supporting a productive, resilient, and diverse workforce, recognising the role
of creative freelancers.
− Increase trade and exports so that the UK’s creative content reaches more
markets and audiences and continues to attract inward investment.
• Prioritise frontier industries with the greatest growth potential:
− Advertising and Marketing – with our creative excellence and track record of
harnessing technology creating a significant comparative advantage
for the UK.
− Film and TV – with our world-famous studio infrastructure and huge global
demand for our content transforming the UK into the second largest exporter
of unscripted TV programmes and ensuring that our films command over 20%
of the global box office.13
− Music, Performing and Visual Arts – with our artists, theatres, festivals, and
grass-roots venues bringing millions of domestic and international tourists to
towns and cities across the UK, and our position as the second largest global
music exporter creating significant opportunities.14
− Video Games – with the UK’s fusion of digital and creative skills positioning us
as a world-leader in video game production.15
• Support the growth of creative clusters across the UK, from video games
expertise in Dundee to cutting-edge Createch in the West Midlands and gamechanging plans for film production in the North East.
• Partner with creative leaders, companies, Mayors, trade associations,
universities and colleges to implement this Plan, from delivering major projects
such as Universal’s multi-billion pound theme park investment to working together
with industry to nurture the pipeline of future creative talent. We will also continue
to work with the Creative Industries Council to build on the Plan.
Supporting our frontier industries 125
The interventions
We will:
• Boost innovation and
commercialisation by significantly
increasing UK Research and
Innovation’s support for creative
businesses, including £100 million over
the Spending Review for the next wave
of creative clusters and a £25 million
Creative Futures programme, creating
five new CoSTAR R&D labs
across the UK.
• Ensure a copyright regime that values
and protects human creativity, can be
trusted, and unlocks new opportunities
for innovation across the creative sector
and the wider economy. The
Government wants to support
rightsholders in licensing their work in
the digital age while allowing AI
developers to benefit from access to
creative material in the UK. We are
analysing responses to the consultation
on delivering a copyright and AI
framework, looking at all options. The
Government recognises the need for this
to be done properly and carefully, in a
considered, measured, and reasoned
way, to develop any future proposals.
We will set out a detailed economic
impact assessment on all options under
consideration and a report on the use of
copyright material for AI training,
transparency, and technical standards.
This analysis will inform the
Government’s position, alongside a
series of expert working groups to bring
together people from both the AI and
creative sectors on the issues of
transparency, licensing, and other
technical standards to chart a
way forward.
• Establish a Creative Content Exchange
(CCE) to be a trusted marketplace for
selling, buying, licensing, and enabling
permitted access to digitised cultural
and creative assets. This new
marketplace will open up new revenue
streams and allow content owners to
commercialise and financialise their
assets while providing data users with
ease of access. In this way, the CCE will
help fuel the next wave of creative
innovation while facilitating the
development of high-value AI models.
Discovery and testing of appropriate
models and technologies with early
adopter content-owners will be
supported by UKRI’s R&D Missions
Accelerator Programme.
• Boost creative education by launching
a refreshed UK-wide £9 million creative
careers service and co-funding the
expansion of the National Film and
Television School, with £11 million from
private investors including Walt Disney
Company, the Dana and Albert R.
Broccoli Foundation and Sky. Following
through our Curriculum and Assessment
Review we will deliver a curriculum in
England that readies young people for
life and work, including in creative
subjects and skills.
• Explore with the EU and member states
how best to improve arrangements for
touring artists across Europe, building
on the May 2025 UK-EU Summit, which
recognised the value of cultural and
artistic exchange.
126 Industrial Strategy
• Increase the number of creative trade
missions and markets accessed, with
more funding to boost exports across
major markets in the EU and the United
States and fast-growing markets such as
the Gulf and Asia-Pacific.
• Provide targeted support for our
frontier industries, with £75 million for
film and TV, £30 million for video games,
and up to £30 million for music over the
next three years, to develop and
showcase new content, back British
talent, and boost exports and inward
investment.
• Support creative clusters through:
A new Creative Places Growth Fund
devolving £150 million over three years
to six Mayoral Strategic Authorities,
alongside support for the Tees Valley
Creative Investment Zone, which will
receive over £160 million in funding
over 10 years.
Supporting our frontier industries 127
Defence
The Defence industry is the cornerstone
of the UK’s national security, which
underpins economic growth. Our
defence businesses are global leaders
in their fields, with strengths in defence
capabilities spread across the country
– from shipbuilding in Scotland, missile
manufacturing in Northern Ireland,
and cyber capabilities in Wales, through
to combat aircraft manufacturing and
submarine building in the North West
of England.
The Government’s commitment to increase
investment in defence to 2.6% of GDP in
2027, with an ambition to rise to 3% in the
next Parliament, will protect the UK from
increasing external threats and create a
generational opportunity for the Defence
sector. MoD spending with industry
supports over 200,000 jobs across the UK,
with nearly 70% of spending outside
London and the South East.16
The Strategic Defence Review vision is for,
by 2035, the UK to be a “leading techenabled defence power, with an Integrated
Force that deters, fights, and wins through
constant innovation at wartime pace”. To
do this, the Government’s ambition is to
unlock that potential and transform the UK
into a defence industrial superpower,
delivering world-leading UK capability and
forging a new partnership with industry,
workers, and our Armed Forces. The
forthcoming Defence Sector Plan (Defence
Industrial Strategy) will outline how we will
reform, grow, and innovate to build our
defence industrial base helping to scale
small and mid-tier companies and create
industrial leaders.
128 Industrial Strategy
The approach
To achieve this ambition we will:
• Reform the business environment to:
− Back UK-based businesses, with a particular focus on SMEs and
non-traditional suppliers and building a dynamic and competitive UK defence
marketplace.
− Improve defence procurement and acquisition, increasing speed and value
for money, and providing the demand signals to unlock private investment.
− Make the UK a defence innovation leader, increasing our support for novel
technologies and innovation and catalysing wider adoption in civil sectors.
− Put exports and international capability partnerships at the heart of our
approach, with a new Office for defence exports supporting businesses.
− Support resilient and secure growth, ensuring the UK’s defence industrial
base is protected from threats and a source of growth for the rest of
the economy.
• Prioritise frontier industries critical to security and growth. Further detail will be
set out in the Defence Industrial Strategy shortly, and will include those subsectors which are vital for our national security, enablers with civil and military
applications covered in other sectors (Advanced Connectivity Technologies, AI,
Cyber, Engineering Biology, Quantum Technologies, Semiconductors, Space), as
well as frontier industries, including:
− Drones and Autonomous Systems - with our strengths in robotics, drones,
autonomy, and human-machine teaming.
− Combat air – with aerospace making up more than half of UK defence export
orders over the five years from 2019 to 2023, evidence of our global
advantage and capability in areas such as sub systems.17
− Complex weapons – with our landmark £4 billion air defence export deal with
Poland demonstrating our comparative advantage in a growing
global market.
Supporting our frontier industries 129
− Maritime Capabilities – with our success in exporting ship designs such as the
Arrowhead 140 and Type 26 Frigates and a growing market for nextgeneration autonomous maritime systems.
− Directed energy weapons - currently a small sector but with significant growth
opportunities in R&D and leading UK capabilities such as DragonFire, a laser
directed-energy weapon demonstrator developed for the MoD.18
• Launch new Defence Growth Deals across the UK to support localised
ecosystems in the places with the highest growth potential in defence-related
industries aligned to our national security priorities. We will work with local and
devolved governments to launch Defence Growth Deals in England, Scotland,
Wales and Northern Ireland.
• Deepen collaboration with the sector, including through the new Defence
Industrial Joint Council, which has been launched with a more diverse
membership, including scale-up companies and trade unions.
The interventions
To progress these opportunities, we will:
• Accelerate the adoption of novel and
dual-use technologies by:
− Spending at least 10% of the Ministry
of Defence’s equipment budget on
acquiring novel technologies, such
as drones and AI enabled
technology, pulling cutting-edge
technology over the ‘valley of death’
from prototype to production and
aligning this with the Government’s
ambitions for innovation and
technology in other sectors.
− Launching UK Defence Innovation to
identify, develop and procure
cutting-edge technologies, backed
by a £400 million budget, to fasttrack innovative technology to the
frontline while supporting the UK
tech sector.
− Launching an alliance with the High
Value Manufacturing Catapult to
leverage its world-leading research
and development capabilities.
130 Industrial Strategy
• Back UK-based business by:
− Increasing MODs spending with
SMEs by £2.5 billion by May 2028, a
50% increase against a financial
year 2023/24 baseline, ensuring that
they receive at least £7.5 billion of
MOD’s total budget in Financial Year
2027 / 2028.19
− Deploying our SME Support Centre
to boost opportunities for nontraditional suppliers.
− Defence operational developments
being eligible for fast-track planning
where they are considered nationally
important Crown Developments,
when being delivered by or on behalf
of a Crown Body.
• Reform procurement from top
to bottom by:
− Engaging industry early in
procurement processes on
desired outcomes.
− Ensuring that suppliers are rewarded
for productivity and for taking risks.
− Reducing the burden on potential
suppliers from startups to primes.
− Implementing a new, segmented
approach to procurement:
contracting Major modular platforms
within two years; pace-setting spiral
and modular upgrades within a year;
and Rapid commercial exploitation
within three months.
• Increase defence exports by:
− Creating a new Office for Defence
Exports, reporting to the National
Armaments Director, which will
revitalise government’s support to
help UK exporters compete and win
in a growing global market, including
by developing a Government-toGovernment framework with industry.
− Actively build exportability into our
procurement processes, including by
requiring major procurements to
include an assessment of
export potential.
• Working with industry to deliver a
defence skills package, including new
Defence Technical Colleges and funding
for courses for defence-related skills.
Supporting our frontier industries 131
Digital and Technologies
The fastest-growing areas of the
economy of the future will be
those driven by technology, with
approximately half of the projected
GDP growth in the coming years being
attributed to the adoption of emerging
technologies.20 The list of most
valuable global businesses is already
dominated by technology firms, with
9 in the top 15.21 The sector’s advances
are revolutionising industries across
the economy, redefining how we live
and work and spurring intense global
competition to capture the benefits.
Technology will be important to our
economic security and resilience,
keeping citizens and businesses
safe and underpinning innovation in
defence and security.
The UK has a rich history of scientific
breakthroughs and technological
innovation to build on. Our leading
universities, world-class research base,
£1 trillion technology ecosystem, and
pioneering businesses put us in a strong
position for future success.22 But to achieve
this we need more of our start-ups to turn
into scale-ups and then global superstars, a
journey which too few companies are
taking in the UK. And we need to nurture
more deep tech firms engaging in capitalintensive, high-risk, high-reward activities
which have the potential to develop critical
capabilities for the UK but face barriers
accessing support from the market.
The Government’s vision is for the UK to be,
by 2035, one of the top three places in the
world to create, invest in and scale-up a
fast-growing technology business. We will
aim to secure the UK’s first trillion-dollar
technology business.
132 Industrial Strategy
The approach
We will:
• Reform the business environment so that the Digital and
Technologies sector can:
− Invest in R&D, the foundation of growth, supported by record-levels of public
investment and improved access to R&D facilities and infrastructure.
− Start and scale up, with deeper pools of public, institutional, and venture
capital available at each stage of their growth journey.
− Grow the skills pipeline and attract the brightest and best to meet the
demand for digital and STEM skills.
− Benefit from reformed regulation and standards, including through the new
Regulatory Innovation Office which will make the UK the best place in the
world to commercialise technologies and innovation.
− Secure the benefits of international collaboration with the scientists,
innovators, and entrepreneurs pushing the boundaries of knowledge.
• Prioritise frontier technologies with the greatest growth potential:
− Advanced Connectivity Technologies (ACTs) – with our globally competitive
research base and innovative companies becoming world leaders in targeted
areas by 2035; realising the economic opportunities and connectivity benefits
created by developing and deploying technologies like 5G and in time 6G,
and advanced optical and satellite communications.23
− Artificial Intelligence (AI) –with our research and engineering talent, vibrant
start-up and scale-up scene, frontier companies, and global leadership on
safety and governance giving us the starting-point for embracing the
opportunities of AI.24
− Cyber Security – with clusters across the UK, lynchpin organisations such as
the National Cyber Security Centre, and a thriving start-up ecosystem
creating significant economic advantages for the UK as businesses and
governments across the world race to develop solutions to cyber threats.25
− Engineering Biology – with our strengths across a range of research areas,
nurtured by strategic long-investments, cementing the strongest ecosystem
for engineering biology outside the US and China.26
Supporting our frontier industries 133
− Quantum Technologies – with the long-term National Quantum Technologies
Programme, clusters of expertise across the country and a thriving photonics
sector making the UK an international pace-setter.27
− Semiconductors – with our expertise in chip design, compound
semiconductors, materials science, equipment manufacturing, and R&D
putting us at the cutting edge of innovation and enabling the UK to be the
first to pioneer next-generation chips.28
• Unlock the potential of Digital and Technology clusters, concentrated in cities
across the UK, including Glasgow and Edinburgh; Cardiff, Birmingham, Bristol,
Oxford, and London.
• Partner with industry to implement this Plan, including through the Quantum
Strategic Advisory Board, AI Energy Council, and Cyber Growth Partnership.
The interventions
We will:
• Support innovation, including by
increasing R&D funding to
£22.6 billion by 2029/30.
• Build the workforce through wider skills
reforms while attracting top talent from
overseas, including through the Global
Talent Fund, aiming to bring around 10
world-class international researchers
and their teams to the UK in 2025/26;
and new Turing AI Global Fellowships to
bring five of the world’s leading AI
experts to the UK.
• Create a more supportive regulatory
environment through the new
Regulatory Innovation Office.
• Strengthen international partnerships,
including through closer collaboration
with the US under a future UK-US
technology partnership.
• Invest in R&D and scale-up
infrastructure for frontier technologies.
• Seize AI opportunities, including by:
− Expanding the Government’s AI
Research Resource (AIRR) by at least
20x by 2030, accelerating AI
innovation through significantly
increased compute capacity and
support for start-ups.
− Establish our new Sovereign AI Unit,
within government, with up to
£500 million to maximise the UK’s
stake in frontier AI. The Unit will work
with the British Business Bank to
make investments alongside a wider
offer on data, compute and talent to
build UK AI capabilities in
partnership with the private sector.
− Invest in AI for Science
Opportunities, accelerating
AI-enabled scientific breakthroughs.
134 Industrial Strategy
Financial Services
The Financial Services sector is one of
the UK’s largest and most productive,
worth around 9% of total economic
output.29 The sector is also an enabler
of growth across the whole economy.
People and businesses rely on the
sector every day, from providing
mortgages to managing their pensions,
to raising capital and securing lending.
As one of the UK’s most successful
sectors globally and a provider of wellpaid and highly skilled jobs across the
UK – two thirds of which are outside
London – we will harness opportunities
as markets digitise and adopt new
technologies, and ensure the real
economy feels the benefits of increased
investment.30
The UK’s status as a global financial sector
cannot be taken for granted, and
international competition continues to
accelerate. The UK must continue to adapt
and innovate to maintain our world-leading
position. We will always uphold the highest
standards, but we must also ensure the
regulatory environment supports growth.
Building on recent ambitious and wideranging reforms, the government’s plans for
financial services will rebalance the system,
setting the financial services sector up to
innovate, grow and enable investment
across the UK. That means building on our
existing success stories, including as a
magnet for overseas capital, and creating
new ones in digital markets, sustainable
finance and beyond.
By 2035, our ambition is for the UK to be
the world’s most innovative full-service
financial centre. We will publish a Sector
Plan alongside the Chancellor’s Mansion
House speech on 15 July following an
extensive co-design process with industry,
and working in close partnership with the
regulators and the sector.
Supporting our frontier industries 135
The approach
To achieve this ambition, we will:
• Ensure the Financial Services sector can fulfil its role as the enabler of growth
across the real economy, with retail banks providing vital credit to UK businesses
and with efficient wholesale financial markets. We recently ran a Call for Evidence
on small business access to finance, seeking to understand where we may be able
to go further to support SMEs and lenders to drive growth.
• Channel our pensions capital into the UK to support the IS-8.
• Boost our capital markets, building on their depth and strength, having
overhauled the UK’s listing regime to bring our rulebook into line with
international best practice, meaning that firms can now list easily, raise capital
quickly and effectively, and grow in the UK.
• Aim to make the UK the most technologically-advanced global financial centre
with fully digitalised markets, and a leading jurisdiction for FinTechs to start up,
scale, and eventually list.
• Enable industries with the greatest potential to invest and grow:
− Asset Management and Wholesale Services – with world-leading sectors
managing the savings of millions of people, directing capital to the UK’s
fastest-growing sectors.
− Capital Markets– with markets that are deep and strong, delivering for firms
and investors and supporting firms to start, scale, list, and stay here.
− Fintech – with a high-growth potential ecosystem capable of reaching parts
of the economy not reached by traditional financial services.
− Insurance and Reinsurance Markets – with a thriving sector poised to build
resilience and seize the economic opportunities of a changing world.
− Sustainable Finance – with our international leadership giving the UK a
stronger hand to capitalise on increasing demand for sustainable
financial products.
• Unlock the economic potential of our financial services clusters, including
Greater London, Greater Manchester, the West Midlands, West Yorkshire, Glasgow,
Cardiff, Edinburgh and Belfast.
• Implement our Sector Plan with industry, through a series of ‘Industry Forums,
covering the whole breadth of the sector, including banking, insurance, and asset
management leaders. 
136 Industrial Strategy
The interventions
We have:
• Enabled the creation of new pension
‘megafunds’ with the scale to invest in
assets with higher growth potential. The
Government has now published the final
report of the pensions investment review
and introduced the Pension Schemes Bill
to create these megafunds. Together
with the industry-led voluntary Mansion
House Accord, these reforms will
secure £50 billion of investment for UK
businesses and major infrastructure
projects.
• Delivered the legislation for PISCES, a
new type of innovative stock exchange
for companies who want to stay private
for longer, building on our reforms to the
UK’s listing regime and support UK
growth companies.
• Taken full advantage of the reformed
Solvency regulatory regime by working
with the Prudential Regulation Authority
(PRA) and the National Wealth Fund to
crowd in investment in productive
assets. The PRA is also consulting on an
Investment Accelerator to reduce the
time between life insurers identifying a
productive investment opportunity and
making that investment.
• Taken steps to streamline our approach
to financial services regulation,
rebalancing to regulate for growth. This
includes consolidating the Payment
Systems Regulator, primarily within the
Financial Conduct Authority; reviewing
the PRA’s and FCA’s ‘have regards’ to
identify opportunities to rationalise
them; working with the FCA to support
early-stage innovative firms to start
conducting regulated activities; and
reviewing the PRA’s and FCA’s key
performance indicators. 
The Financial Services Sector Plan will go
further to:
• Ensure that the Financial Services
regulatory system supports growth.
This will include setting out the
conclusions of the Government’s review
of the Financial Ombudsman Service.
• Set up a bespoke Financial Services
‘concierge service’ to help international
firms get to grips with UK regulations
– attracting more investment and
making it easier to do
business in the UK.
Supporting our frontier industries 137
Life Sciences
The UK Life Sciences sector has made
an extraordinary contribution to
the UK’s international reputation. It
plays a unique role in the economy,
raising productivity and supporting
exceptionally valuable jobs while also
boosting growth indirectly by improving
the health of the population.31 Many
of the most important medicines and
technologies in use around the world
were first developed in the UK. From
vaccines to monoclonal antibodies,
hip replacements to CT scanners, the
UK has a proud heritage in this critical
sector. That track record of innovation
continues to this day. The UK was the
first country to license and deploy
COVID-19 vaccines, to provide worldfirst regulatory approval for a medicine
utilising cutting-edge CRISPR geneediting technology, and run one of the
largest platforms for the development
of personalised cancer vaccines.32
Yet in recent decades, UK Life Sciences
companies have struggled to scale and
capture economic benefits. Even in areas of
traditional strength, such as regulation and
clinical trials, the UK has underperformed in
recent years, with a slower median time for
setting up and approving commercial trials
compared to many competitors.33 The
Government’s plan is for the Life Sciences
sector to repair and transform both the
nation’s economy, as part of the Industrial
Strategy, and the nation’s health, in
alignment with the commitments set out in
the upcoming 10 Year Health Plan.
Our ambition is that the UK will, by 2030,
be the leading Life Sciences economy in
Europe; and by 2035, the third most
important Life Sciences economy globally,
after the US and China.
138 Industrial Strategy
The approach
To achieve this ambition we will:
• Reform the business, regulatory, and public finance landscape across
three pillars:
− Supporting world-class R&D. We will ensure the UK remains a bastion of earlystage science and realises its potential to become world-leading in applied
sciences, with public investment at scale in discovery science, less
bureaucracy, better access to data, and greater strategic alignment between
UK health and Life Sciences research funders. We will invest up to £600 million
alongside the Wellcome Trust in the Health Data Research Service; more than
£650 million over 5 years in Genomics England; up to £354 million in Our
Future Health, at least £30 million into preclinical infrastructure linked to
translational research networks, and up to £20 million in UK BioBank.
− Making the UK an outstanding place in which to start, grow, scale, and
invest, with improved access to finance, a stronger skills base, and stronger
support for UK manufacturers.
− Driving health innovation and NHS reform to ensure that patients get rapid
access to the most effective new technologies, through the use of incentives
and freedoms to encourage the NHS to operate more innovatively, while
enabling shifts from sickness to prevention, hospitality to community, and
analogue to digital.
• Prioritise frontier life sciences industries with the greatest growth potential:
− Pharmaceuticals – with our rich industrial ecosystem focused on the
development and sale of branded medicines and generic and
biosimilar medicines.
− Medical Technologies (MedTech) – with our mix of large FTSE listed firms and
SMEs growing strongly to capture market advantage as new technologies
transform medicine.
• Unleash the economic potential of Life Sciences clusters, including London,
Oxford, and Cambridge, as well as other clusters in Manchester, Liverpool,
Yorkshire, South Wales, the North East, West Midlands, and the GlasgowEdinburgh-Dundee triangle.
Supporting our frontier industries 139
The interventions
The Life Sciences Sector Plan will be
supported over the lifetime of the Spending
Review by Government funding of over
£2 billion, alongside funding from UKRI and
NIHR. The six headline actions we will
prioritise are:
• Realising a Health Data Research
Service (HDRS) with up to £600 million
investment from Government, alongside
the Wellcome Trust to create the world’s
most advanced, secure and AI-ready
health data platform. This will unite
genomic, diagnostic, and clinical data
at population scale, turning NHS and
wider healthcare data into a magnet for
global trials and AI investment.
• Slashing trial approval times to under
150 days by implementing the
O’Shaughnessy reforms and placing a
dual health and growth mandate on the
National Institute for Health and Care
Research (NIHR), we will cut delays that
deter investors and aim to double
commercial interventional trial
participants by 2026 and again by 2029.
• Backing manufacturing with up to
£520 million through the Life Sciences
Innovative Manufacturing Fund, which
will bring globally mobile manufacturing
investments to the UK. This will help
build and maintain the UK’s critical
sovereign capability across the sector,
creating high-value jobs nationwide,
and strengthening domestic health
resilience and supply chain security.
We have also developed a new, bespoke
approach to supporting investments
over £250 million.
• Streamlining regulation and market
access by supporting the Medicines and
Healthcare products Regulatory Agency
(MHRA) to become a faster, more agile
regulator, and giving industry a clearer
route to market through joint advice
and parallel approvals with the National
Institute for Health and Care Excellence
(NICE) alongside a route for
international reliance for medicines and
medical devices so patients benefit
sooner from cutting-edge innovation.
• Introducing Low-friction Procurement
by streamlining the route to
procurement, ensuring it is clearer and
less bureaucratic, giving industry lowfriction access to the NHS through a
Rules Based Pathway for MedTech and
an NHS ‘Innovator Passport’, enabling
innovative MedTech products to reach
patients more quickly.
• Partnering with industry to increase
growth and innovation. We will secure
at least one major strategic partnership
annually with leading Life Sciences
companies. A dedicated support service
will also be established to help 10–20
high-potential UK companies scale,
attract investment, and remain
headquartered in the UK.
140 Industrial Strategy
Professional and Business Services
The UK is a global leader in the
Professional and Business Services
sector (PBS), home to the ‘Big 4’
advisory services firms and 7 of the
largest 15 global legal firms.34 A thriving
national PBS ecosystem is a critical
enabler for the rest of the UK economy.
Our best-in-class lawyers, consultants,
engineers, accountants and architects
help businesses become more
productive, financially resilient and
energy-efficient. The sector spreads
our high standards for corporate
accountability and sustainability
globally, and spreads prosperity
across the UK, with more than half of
jobs located outside London and the
South-East.35 The net zero transition
is also creating new demand for a
wide range of climate, clean energy,
and environment services, which the
UK is well-placed to capitalise on.
But at the same time, the sector
is among the most exposed to
automation and AI, with new skills
essential for further growth – an
opportunity but also a significant
challenge.36
By 2035 the UK will be the world’s most
trusted adviser to global industry, with the
most dynamic and productive PBS sector.
Our ambition by 2035 is to have doubled
business investment in the sector from
£30 billion to £65 billion. Businesses from
every industry and geography will rely on
UK firms to help them succeed in a more
unpredictable world thanks to their high
knowledge intensity, insights into regulatory
and geopolitical change, and track-record
in improving business efficiency.
Supporting our frontier industries 141
The approach
To achieve this ambition we will:
• Reform the business environment so that the sector has the ease, certainty,
long-term stability to:
− Increase tech adoption and innovation, taking advantage of the growth
potential of new digital fields like LawTech and PropTech and building on
higher levels of AI adoption than in the rest of the economy, while addressing
the gap between larger firms and the rest of the sector.
− Develop a highly skilled workforce, with support to boost staff training and
reskilling, in partnership with business, particularly in the specialist skills in
digital, net zero transition, and cybersecurity required to seize new
opportunities.
− Enter new markets and grow exports, supported by a renewed focus from UK
regulators on negotiating mutual recognition of professional qualifications
agreements.
− Access growth finance in all regions of the UK, with more early-stage support
to raise capital and attract inward investment.
− Provide international leadership in setting standards and regulations,
creating more demand for their services.
• Prioritising pioneering and world-leading frontier industries with the greatest
growth potential:
− Accountancy, Audit, and Tax – in which the automation of traditional
accounting will incentivise companies to expand into new areas with
significant growth opportunities, such as Environmental, Social and
Governance reporting. 
− Legal Services – in which the emergence of new technologies and
proliferation of international rules will continue to push innovators to the UK
and its trusted legal framework to agree contracts and settle disputes,
creating new opportunities for our gold-standard legal practices.
− Management Consultancy – in which our globally elite firms have the
potential to dominate the growing market for advice on seizing the
opportunities of the net zero transition, adapting to the digital transformation,
and maintaining stability though global volatility.
• Build on the sector’s regional strengths by supporting clusters in Glasgow and
Edinburgh; West Yorkshire; Greater Manchester, Liverpool, West Midlands, and
Greater London.
• Implement this Sector Plan in partnership with industry, through joint
commitments and working closely with a reformed Professional and Business
Services Council.
142 Industrial Strategy
The interventions
The Government is committing through the
Spending Review over £150 million to
support our ambition for PBS. To progress
these priorities we will:
• Boost tech adoption for SMEs by
expanding the Made Smarter
programme in England to provide
expert guidance, skills and workforce
development, and matchfunded grants.
• Unlock innovation by developing a
Smart Data programme focusing on the
property sector. This will improve datasharing across the real-estate industry
to spur innovative product and services
development.
• Expand the new AI Skills Hub, launching
in summer 2025, to include PBS, bringing
together industry, training providers,
and AI technology partners to
address barriers.
• Support exports, trade, and inward
investment, including by:
− Focusing on securing mutual
recognition of professional
qualifications agreements, with
support for regulators.
− Ensuring that PBS firms can access
UKEF’s recently-launched Early
Project Services Guarantee, which
provides competitive finance terms
to allow international buyers to
procure early project services from
UK-based businesses.
− Pivoting resource in the
Government’s overseas network to
help UK businesses looking to export
or expand in international markets,
as well as international firms looking
to do business in the UK.
• Create opportunities across the UK by
launching PBS Hubs in Liverpool,
Greater Manchester, West Yorkshire,
West Midlands, and Edinburgh-Glasgow
Central Belt, working closely with
Mayoral Strategic Authorities and the
Scottish Government. Each Hub will
reflect local needs and priorities, from
accelerating the development of
emerging technology sectors to
connecting firms to potential investors.
Supporting our frontier industries 143
Endnotes
1 Department for Business and Trade analysis of Office for National Statistics (2025)
GDP low-level aggregates. See technical annex for further information on IS-8
sector definitions
2 Department for Business and Trade (2023) Advanced Manufacturing Plan
3 Department for Science, Innovation and Technology and Department for Business,
Energy and Industrial Strategy (2021) UK Innovation Strategy: leading the future
by creating it
4 UK Government (2025) Aerospace and jet zero
5 Henry Royce Institute (2025) National Materials Innovation Strategy
6 Department for International Trade (2018) UK capabilities in the Agri-Tech sector
7 Office for National Statistics (2024) Business registers and employment survey
8 Renewable UK (2024) Offshore Wind Industrial Growth Plan; Renewable UK (2024)
Floating Wind: Anchoring the next generation offshore; RenewableUK (2025) Global
offshore wind pipeline, February 2025
9 Department for Energy Security and Net Zero (2023) Carbon capture, usage and
storage: a vision to establish a competitive market; RGU Energy Transition Institute
(2023) Powering up the workforce: The future of the UK offshore energy workforce
10 Institute for Public Policy Research (2024) The Heatwave: Unlocking the economic
potential of UK Heat Pump Manufacturing
11 Publishers Association (2024) Vision for publishing: The role of publishing in the UK’s
success; UBS (2025) The Art Basel and UBS Art Market Report; Video Games Europe
(2023) All about Video Games report
12 Department for Culture, Media and Sport (2020) R&D in the Creative
Industries Survey
13 British Film Institute (2025) UK films at the worldwide box office, 2024
14 IFPI (2021) Global music report 2025; UBS (2024) The Art Basel and UBS art market
report; UK Music (2024) Manifesto for music: Supercharge sector growth and boost
music exports
15 Video Games Europe (2023) All about Video Games report
16 Ministry of Defence (2025) MOD supported employment estimates 2022/23
17 Department for Business and Trade (2025) UK defence export statistics 2023
18 Ministry of Defence (2025) Major £5 billion technology investment accelerates UK
defence investment accelerates UK defence innovation in a European first
19 This covers MOD’s direct contracting within SMEs and also opportunities for SMEs
indirectly within the supply chain.
20 Government Office for Science and Department for Science, Innovation and
Technology (2025) The wider economic impacts of emerging technologies in the UK
21 TradingView (2025) Large cap global companies
144 Industrial Strategy
22 QA World University Rankings (2025) Top global universities; Dealroom (2025) UK tech:
a forward look to 2025. Converted from US$1.2 trillion using an exchange rate of 1
USD = 0.79 GBP (Bank of England, average for 2024). Dealroomʼs proprietary tech
taxonomy may include industries that are not covered in the Digital and Technologies
Sector Plan.
23 Department for Science, Innovation and Technology (2025) Government response to
the telecoms supply chain diversification advisory council report
24 Department for Science, Innovation and Technology (2025) AI
opportunities action plan
25 Department for Science, Innovation and Technology (2025) Cyber security sectoral
analysis 2025; Department for Science, Innovation and Technology (2025)
Government backs next wave of semiconductor start-ups to scale up growth;
Department for Science, Innovation and Technology (2025) Cyber security sectoral
analysis 2025
26 Government Office for Science (2025) Unlocking the power of engineering biology
27 Department for Science, Innovation and Technology (2024) New national quantum
laboratory to open up access to quantum computing, unleashing a revolution in AI,
energy, healthcare and more
28 Department for Science, Innovation and Technology (2025) Government backs next
wave of semiconductor start-ups to scale up growth
29 Office for National Statistics (2024) GDP output approach – low-level aggregates
30 Office for National Statistics (2025) Workforce jobs by region and industry
31 Office for National Statistics (2025) GDP low-level aggregates and Office for National
Statistics (2025) Employee and self-employed jobs by industry for businesses for
standard industry classification 21: JOBS03, JOBS04. See Pharmaceutical
Manufacturing.
32 Department for Health and Social Care (2021) Covid 19 vaccines delivery plan; Cancer
Research UK (2024) Patients to access trials of personalised cancer vaccines
33 Office for Life Sciences (2024) Life sciences competitiveness indicators
34 The City UK (2024) UK legal services 2024
35 Department for Business and Trade analysis of Office of National Statistics (2025)
Business Register and Employment Survey. Based on 2023 data. See the technical
annex for sector definitions
36 Bain & Company (2023) Two fifths of professional services work could be automated
with AI– accessed via Consultancy.uk
Supporting our frontier industries 145
Creating an
enduring partnership
with business
146 Industrial Strategy
Many of the greatest innovations and
economic successes of recent decades
have been created not by industry
or government working alone but
through partnerships between the
state and the private sector. The UK
must be the epitome of the dynamic,
bringing a whole-of-government focus
and an ethos of co-creation to our
Industrial Strategy.
Yet too often in the past the Government
has not been a good enough partner for
business. Multiple industrial strategies in
the last two decades tell their own story of
inconsistency and a failure to appreciate
what industry needs: a long-term outlook,
policy stability and steadfast execution,
together creating an environment where
businesses can make long-term investment
decisions. The state has also not always
been effective in using its vast purchasing
power to invest strategically in the UK’s
most important industries, missing out on
the opportunity for public procurement to
create demand for innovative products and
catalyse the growth of British supply chains.
Genuine partnership is even more
important in an era of uncertainty where
businesses need government to provide
stability. If we get this right, businesses have
told us that they will work with us to invest in
Britain’s future.
The Industrial Strategy will herald a stepchange in how the Government works with
business, shares information, and offers
support and incentives. Throughout
development of this Strategy, we have
listened carefully to what industry, as well
as devolved governments, trade unions,
Mayors, UK institutions, and other experts,
have told us about the biggest
opportunities and barriers for business
investment, focusing on the IS-8 and
clusters across the UK. At the outset, we
also established an independent Industrial
Strategy Advisory Council (ISAC), with senior
leaders from industry, academia, and trade
unions, which has been a crucial partner.
These partnerships will be vital as we
implement this Strategy.
Creating an enduring partnership with business 147
The approach
We will:
• Implement our Industrial Strategy in and through partnership with business.
Each of our Sector Plans has been co-developed with business, with commitments
from both government and industry based around shared priorities. We will turn
government into the best possible partner for incumbents and new entrants alike,
in how we procure, develop policy, make decisions, and maintain stability; with
clear expectations on business to rise to the occasion with more investment in
skills, technology, supply chains and other essential enablers of growth.
• Leverage the Government’s purchasing power through public procurement to
bolster domestic competitiveness, make the economy stronger and more resilient,
and provide a solid foundation of security for UK businesses. This will be delivered
both by implementing recent reforms and developing further options with industry
to set even greater ambition.
• Design government support schemes to leverage the maximum possible
contribution from the private sector, including co-funding. This will build on the
Government’s track record of using procurement, financial levers and
proportionate conditionality to incentivise high-quality job creation
across the UK.
• Transform government into a stronger, more capable and more agile state,
supported by strong and enduring pro-growth institutions, including a permanent
Industrial Strategy Council. The pace of technology and economic change is
requiring industry to find new ways of doing business; government needs to work
differently in order to support firms which are adapting as well as firms which have
entered the market as challengers and disruptors.
• Work closely with devolved governments and Mayoral Strategic Authorities
(MSAs) to harness the potential of places across the UK – as set out in Chapter 2).
• Work closely with trade unions and organisations representing the unique
perspectives of civil society to ensure the Strategy will bring meaningful change
to workers and communities. Through our plan to Make Work Pay we will continue
to support the lowest paid workers with job security and improved working
conditions. As part of our strategy to align economic value with social outcomes,
we will also deepen collaboration with the Impact Economy, and with businesses
which have a social purpose, to unlock innovation, boost inclusive growth, and
strengthen community resilience.
148 Industrial Strategy
• Ensure that we are on track to deliver our ambition in the IS-8 by 2035 by
monitoring and evaluating the impact of policy interventions and economic
developments. This will be overseen by the Industrial Strategy Advisory Council.
Timely scrutiny of these measures will allow us to evolve and course-correct if
necessary, treating our Industrial Strategy as a living framework for agile decisionmaking rather than a publication set in stone.
• Maintain our momentum and focus on the long-term. Building on our successful
International Investment Summit in autumn 2024, we will continue to host regular
summits, bringing together global investors and industry to attract investment
into our sectors. The Government will consistently review progress against the
strategy in partnership with ISAC and will publish an update annually, reporting
on progress and ensuring the Industrial Strategy remains fit for purpose in a fast
changing world. In addition, all fiscal events will set out the Government’s
continued support for the Industrial Strategy and the IS-8.
Creating an enduring partnership with business 149
The interventions
To progress these priorities we are
committing to:
Recognising and maximising the
value of private investment
We will:
• Take every appropriate opportunity to
combine public and private funding to
attract private capital. Government
co-investment has a critical role to play
in crowding in private investment and
building long-term partnerships with
investors based on shared priorities and
commitments. In the Autumn Budget
2024 we set out a new ‘investment rule’
to enable investment in financial assets
that are expected to grow the economy
while delivering a positive return for the
Exchequer. We will maximise the
benefits of this rule by continuing to
increase our use of ‘blended finance’
interventions, including through the
National Wealth Fund, to target specific
market failures, share risks with
investors, and shape market incentives.
We will also build more strategic
partnerships with mission-driven capital,
like impact investment and
philanthropy, to combine public,
private, and philanthropic resources to
generate positive social and
environmental impacts in communities.
• Ensure that the full benefits of public
and private investments, especially for
delivering the objectives of our
Industrial Strategy, are taken into
account when we consider the case for
government action or support. For
instance, we will publish new
supplementary guidance to the Green
Book on economic resilience to ensure
that contributions to resilience made by
the private sector are fully and
consistently appraised in business cases
for grants and other government
interventions.
• More broadly, we have heard feedback
from businesses and other stakeholders
that the way we award grant
programmes could be improved. DBT
and HMT will work with industry, the
Industrial Development Advisory Board,
the Industrial Strategy Advisory Council,
and other partners to consider barriers
to business and opportunities to
maximise the impact of our businessfacing funds on jobs, skills, resilience,
regional growth, small businesses in
supply chains, and net zero. The
Government will set out more detail in
the first annual Industrial
Strategy update.
150 Industrial Strategy
Investment commitments
Since securing £63 billion in investment commitments ahead of the International
Investment Summit in October 2024, the Government has continued to work closely
with investors to secure major capital commitments for the UK, creating new jobs,
funding house-building, improving infrastructure, and driving growth in the IS-8.
Transformative deals include:
• A strategic partnership between the MoD and Rheinmetall to unlock over
£400 million of long-term investment into the defence manufacturing industry,
including in a new large-calibre gun barrel production facility in the UK. This
initiative is set to create up to 400 jobs [May 2025].
• £170 million investment from Knauf Insulation in a state-of-the-art
manufacturing facility in Shotton, North Wales, creating around 140
jobs [May 2025].
• Universal’s multi-billion pound investment in a major new theme park and resort
in Bedford, bringing nearly 20,000 jobs during the construction period and a
further 8,000 jobs across hospitality and the Creative Industries when it opens in
2031 [April 2025].
• A new partnership between the Government and OCBC, Singapore’s second
largest bank, to facilitate £10 billion of investment into key priority sectors in the
UK, including energy, infrastructure, and real estate [April 2025].
• £12 billion commitment from Vantage Data Centers to expand their footprint
across the UK, delivering 11,500 jobs [January 2025].
• £4 billion investment by Malaysian-owned YTL businesses over the next five
years, with around £2 billion going towards the Brabazon Bristol development,
delivering more than 30,000 jobs [January 2025].
• £550 million in impact investing commitments from three major financial
institutions, Schroders, Man Group, and Resonance, to fund the building of at
least 5,000 new homes to address social inequality [October 2024].
Creating an enduring partnership with business 151
Reforming public procurement
We will:
• Implement recent measures to create a
simpler, more commercial, and
transparent regime, building on the
Procurement Act (2023), which came
into force in February 2025. Changes to
the regime include:
− A new National Procurement Policy
Statement which instructs public
bodies to consider how they can use
procurement to support economic
growth and the Industrial Strategy.
− A legal duty on contracting
authorities to consider how they can
remove obstacles to small businesses
bidding for public contracts.
− A new online platform publishing
upcoming procurement activity and
opportunities for preprocurement
engagement for suppliers
interested in bidding.
− Strengthened requirements to pay
contractors within 30 days
throughout the public sector
supply chain
• Go further to ensure that procurement
strategically supports our Industrial
Strategy priorities and creates high
quality jobs and skills in our local
communities, and supports sectors
critical to national security. We will
shortly launch a public consultation on
how we can open up the contracts to
give more weight to firms that can show
they will boost British jobs, including by
requiring contracting authorities to:
− Set at least one award criteria in
major procurements which relates to
the quality of the supplier’s
contribution to jobs,
opportunities or skills.
− Set at least one social value Key
Performance Indicator (KPI) relating
to jobs, opportunities or skills in
major contracts and report regularly
on delivery.
− Set three-year targets for
procurement spend with SMEs and
social enterprises and publish
progress annually.
− Exclude suppliers from bidding for
major contracts if they do not pay
their subcontractors promptly.
• Set more ambitious targets for the IS-8
to promote innovation pull-through,
including through a new Commercial
Innovation Hub, which will trial new
approaches to service design and
procurement. We will provide clear,
long-term signals to suppliers to
accelerate innovation and create
investment opportunities. For example,
we are targeting at least 10% of the
MoD’s equipment procurement budget
for novel technologies.
• Leverage the new Digital Commercial
Centre of Excellence in central
government, bringing together digital
and commercial expertise to make it
possible to buy once and well, and to
open up opportunities for small
businesses to work on digital
transformation in government.
152 Industrial Strategy
Ensuring that businesses and
investors receive timely support
and decisions
We will:
• Provide a first-class concierge service
to make the experience of investing in
the UK smooth, quick, and attractive.
The Office for Investment (OfI), which we
have bolstered significantly and
embedded at the centre of government
as a unit jointly sponsored by HMT, DBT,
and No10, now has greater backing to
ensure that the most strategically
important investors in the IS-8 receive
the strongest possible support: rapid
trouble-shooting to unblock issues with
grid connections, planning, sites, or
skills; agile decision-making and clarity
on the Government’s priorities and
policy direction; and active co-creation
of investment opportunities alongside
the UK’s Public Financial Institutions,
national and regional leaders, and
private sector partners to share risk.
• Give businesses in the IS-8 clearer
entry-points into government so that
chief executives and senior business
leaders know who to speak to if they
need support or advice tailored to the
company’s needs. This includes:
− Where there is appetite from
industry, and aligned to our wider
programme of public sector reform,
we will explore establishing
dedicated Sector Offices to support
the IS-8 and co-deliver Sector Plans.
These will build on successful models
like the Office for Life Sciences,
bringing together policy and delivery
interests and expertise that currently
sit across multiple departments,
giving businesses an immediate first
point-of-contact to engage,
whatever their issue. 
− Improving our support offer for
companies navigating a more
challenging, uncertain global
environment with our new Supply
Chain Centre, as set out in Chapter 1
and with more additional support set
out in the Trade Strategy.
• Make speedier, more competitive offers
of support to globally mobile investors
and companies of strategic importance
to the UK. We are rewiring the
Government’s investment delivery
operation to become a more credible,
responsive, and focused negotiating
partner, led by the expanded Office for
Investment. In particular:
− The Minister for Investment, as the
Government’s Chief Investment
Negotiator, will directly lead the
most complex negotiations, with a
mandate from the Prime Minister
and Chancellor to progress
discussions quickly and efficiently.
− For all negotiations, we will agree a
timetable with negotiating partners
at the outset, with a new Investment
Committee of the most senior
government officials responsible for
ensuring that milestones are met.
• In certain Government programmes we
are already taking steps to speed
up processes:
− DESNZ will shorten the time to award
support for hydrogen
production projects;
Creating an enduring partnership with business 153
− the Office for Life Sciences is
speeding up negotiations for science
investments over £250 million via the
introduction of a Life Sciences Large
Investment Portfolio, providing
investors with upfront clarity over the
UK’s offer and bespoke, structured
engagement through negotiations;
− and the Department for Business
and Trade will accelerate its
approach to the zero emission
vehicle supply chain through the
DRIVE35 programme, with an aim to
formally respond to capital funding
bids within 60 working days,
following a complete
application assessment.
• We are also considering how to
streamline government processes
further, for instance by giving
departments greater autonomy in
administering grants and reviewing
business support funding programmes
for IS sectors to reduce barriers to entry,
improve efficiency, and monitor
performance.
• Build commercial skills in government
to give confidence to industry that the
officials responsible for developing
policy and engaging with businesses
understand how they operate, their
drivers and needs, and how and why
investment decisions get made. The
Government will create an in-house
Business Academy, underpinned by a
new standards framework setting
expectations for all business-facing Civil
Servants from entry to expert level. We
are also introducing a new approach to
business placements, making it easier to
bring industry expertise into government
and to place Civil Servants into industry
for periods of up to a year. For instance,
we have created a Diplomatic Advisory
Hub with the British Chamber of
Commerce to place diplomats into SMEs
operating across the world.
Implementing the Harrington Review
The independent Harrington Review, published in November 2023, set out six
headline recommendations for how the UK could increase FDI and business
investment to grow the industries of the future. To implement all six, we have:
1. Set out a clear Business Investment Strategy in the form of this Industrial
Strategy, identifying the frontier industries we will focus on and with an overall
ambition of increasing investment in eight growth-driving sectors by 2035.
2. Ensured that investment is prioritised across central government by establishing
a new Ministerial Committee, the OfI Board, chaired by the Minister for
Investment and with the Chief Secretary to the Treasury and the Prime Minister’s
Chief Business Adviser as core members. This is supported by an official-level
investment committee bringing together department heads from across
government, chaired by DBT’s Permanent Secretary.
154 Industrial Strategy
3. Expanded our place-based offer to investors through the measures set out in
Chapter 2, including the Strategic Sites Accelerator. We have also developed
specific new initiatives to offer the financing and investment expertise of the OfI,
NWF, BBB, and UKEF to the devolved governments, Mayors, and local authorities
across the UK’s nations and regions.
4. Reformed the business environment, as set out in Chapter 1, having engaged
extensively with investors to understand the barriers and challenges to
investing in the UK.
5. Built on the success of the OfI and given it stronger tools to compete
internationally through a significant expansion of its resources and capability, as
set out above.
6. Developed strategically targeted incentives with timely decision-making
timetables, while recognising that there is more to be done to ensure grant
funding processes are as internationally competitive as possible, as
set out above.
Improving support for small and
medium sized businesses
The Industrial Strategy will make it easier
and quicker for all businesses to operate in
the UK, including SMEs, which will benefit
from the range of reforms set out above,
including improved digitisation in local
planning authorities, and enhanced access
to finance from the BBB and UKEF. Ahead
of the publication of the SME Strategy later
this year, the Government will also:
• Make essential information more
accessible for businesses at all stages
of the growth cycle, with a simplified
and improved digital interface. To
achieve this we will:
− Introduce a new Business Growth
Service in summer 2025. This will
include a new website to provide a
single online platform through which
businesses can find everything they
need in one place to help them start
up, scale up, sustain growth, export,
invest, and access recruitment
support from DWP.
− Explore an extension of GOV.UK One
Login, a single sign-in service which
is primarily focused on citizens but
could offer businesses a more
personalised, data-driven interface,
saving them time and money.
− Remove out-of-date or inaccessible
online content, improve web-pages
which get the highest traffic, and
adding better signposting content to
make the landscape more
manageable.
Creating an enduring partnership with business 155
− Improve our GOV.UK AI Chatbot,
which can only be as useful as the
content and information architecture
which sit beneath it.
− Make regulatory content on GOV.UK
easier to navigate, so that it provides
the information that businesses need
in order to understand and comply
with regulations, with only the most
complex or novel cases requiring
bespoke support.
• Improve access to advice and support
for SMEs in England through the network
41 Growth Hubs, delivered in partnership
with local authorities and the
private sector.
• Continue to tackle the challenge of
late payments to SMEs by:
− Undertaking significant reforms,
including a new Fair Payment Code,
upcoming legislation to require large
companies to include their payment
performance reporting within annual
reports, and an upcoming
consultation on potential legislative
measures to go further.
− Appointing Emma Jones CBE as the
new Small Business Commissioner,
effective from 23 June 2025. The SBC
will play a key role in tackling late
payments and long payment terms
for small businesses and the selfemployed, including through delivery
of the new Fair Payment Code.
− Proposing to exclude suppliers who
do not pay their contractors on time
from a wider range of public sector
contracts, extending this beyond
central government bodies, and to
set targets for direct spend with
SMEs as part of our forthcoming
consultation on reforms to public
procurement.
• Help SMEs to adopt new technologies.
The industry-led SME Digital Adoption
Taskforce was launched in April 2024
and will publish its final report this
summer. We welcome this work and will
consider the report’s recommendations
carefully. We will also expand across
England the Made Smarter technology
adoption programme for manufacturing
SMEs and created a dedicated scheme
for the Professional and Business
Services sector.
• Support SMEs to decarbonise, with the
UK Business Climate Hub providing
information, advice, and signposting to
private sector services.
Establishing strong pro-growth
institutions and governance
We will:
• Create a strong, effective, and
permanent independent Industrial
Strategy Council. This will be enshrined
in law when parliamentary time allows,
providing insight and advice to the
Government across the IS-8 (and cityregions and clusters, as well as priority
international markets). It will:
156 Industrial Strategy
− Publish an annual report on its work,
as well as ad hoc advice
commissioned by the Government.
− In time, be able to take advantage
of new legal powers to access data
and evidence from across
government to support its
ongoing work.
− Have its headquarters in Manchester
from 2026, with a second presence in
London. From these locations the ISC
will build strong connections to
important institutions and partners
across the UK, including devolved
governments and Mayors.
− Be supported by an expanded
secretariat comprised of analysts
and policy professionals.
• Transition the Industrial Strategy Unit
(ISU) in the Department for Business
and Trade into a permanent delivery
unit to coordinate implementation and
further policy development, working
closely with the Enterprise and Growth
Unit in the Treasury.
• Create robust governance mechanisms
to ensure that there is a consistent focus
within government on supporting the
IS-8, and that our Industrial Strategy is a
living document which supports agile
decision-making in a changing
landscape. This will include a new
architecture with our partners, including:
− Oversight and implementation
forums with devolved governments
and Mayoral Strategic Authorities to
support delivery of the strategy at a
local level across the UK.
− Delivery boards bringing together
departments and agencies
responsible for regulation, public
finance, innovation, and
procurement, including a DBT-HMT
chaired IS Delivery Board with the
heads of major delivery partners,
including BBB, the UKRI CEO, and
the National Armaments Director.
− New Ministerially-led taskforces
bringing together government,
business, and public agencies to
focus on important missions, such as
making the UK the best place in the
world to scale up.
• Review our economic institutions and
Arm’s-Length Bodies to ensure they are
hard-wired to deliver the Industrial
Strategy, exploring renewed mandates,
accountability, governance, measurable
outcomes and performance metrics to
support the Industrial Strategy’s
priorities and the IS-8.
• Recruit ‘Industry Champions’ to inject
dynamism, innovation and ambition
into Sector Plan delivery. Learning from
previous successful examples, these
business disruptors will act as chief
advisors on each Sector Plan, bringing
expertise and spearheading partnership
with industry.
Creating an enduring partnership with business 157
Industrial Strategy Bill
We will introduce an Industrial Strategy Bill to implement measures which require
primary legislation. This will include provisions to put the Industrial Strategy Council
on a statutory footing when parliamentary time allows, with clearly defined duties
and functions, underlining our commitment to policy stability, continuity, and delivery
of a 10-year plan. Legislation will also enable the ISC to access government data
more easily. We will also use the Bill to legislate for wider measures in the Industrial
Strategy, such as supporting businesses with their electricity costs.
Monitoring the impact and
effectiveness of our policies
We will:
• Support robust and comprehensive
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of the
Industrial Strategy, which will be
overseen by the Industrial Strategy
Advisory Council. The Council will work
closely with government departments
and public bodies (such as regulators)
that are responsible for developing the
M&E programmes for individual Sector
Plans and policies. The ISAC will take a
data-led approach to assess progress
on the overall Industrial Strategy:
− Operational data on the delivery
and impact of policies, to monitor
progress in delivering individual
Industrial Strategy policies.
− Economic indicators at the economywide, sector, and place level. We
have chosen six core metrics,
reflecting a range of desirable
objectives for the IS-8 and the
economy as a whole: business
investment, Gross Value Added,
productivity growth, trade exports,
labour market outcomes such as
employment and wages, and the
number of new, large,
‘homegrown’ businesses.
• The ISAC will set out its findings publicly,
including in its annual report, in which it
will also provide views on how the
Industrial Strategy could evolve in
response to policy delivery progress and
relevant developments in the
UK economy.
• Further details on M&E, including the
‘impact pathway’ linking individual
policies to real-world outcomes and the
overarching goals of the Industrial
Strategy, are set out in the Technical
Annex accompanying the document.
158 Industrial Strategy
E03387012
978-1-5286-5834-8