British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship
University of Warwick - Faculty of Arts
Location:	Coventry, University of Warwick
Salary:	Not Specified
Hours:	Full Time
Contract Type:	Fixed-Term/Contract
Placed On:	29th July 2025
Closes:	13th August 2025
The Faculty of Arts at the University of Warwick encourages an outstanding postdoctoral scholar to apply to The British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship scheme, starting in the 2025/26 academic year.

The Faculty of Arts is one of the world’s top 50 Arts and Humanities faculties and is home to a thriving research culture spread across six Departments and Schools. These are Classics and Ancient History; English and Comparative Literary Studies; History; Modern Languages and Cultures; Cross-Faculty Studies; and the School of Creative Arts, Performance and Visual Cultures, which includes Film and Television Studies, Theatre and Performance Studies, History of Art, the Centre for Cultural and Media Policy Studies, and the Warwick Writing Programme. The Faculty also hosts a number of outstanding research centres, including the Yesu Persaud Centre for Caribbean Studies and the Centre for the Study of the Renaissance. Further information about each of these and the Faculty’s research can be found here: https://warwick.ac.uk/fac/arts/research/.

Applications are welcomed from candidates who have a strong research profile and meet the following eligibility criteria:

You must either be a UK/EEA national, have completed their doctorate at a UK university or have a strong prior association with the UK academic community.
You must not yet have held a permanent academic appointment.
You must meet the British Academy’s definition of early career: there is no age criterion for these awards. Instead, eligible applicants are expected to be at an early stage of their career. This is defined as being within three years from the date of your successful Viva Voce examination this means that they must have completed, or be due to complete, their viva voce between 1st April 2023 and 1st April 2026.
The British Academy does not allow for resubmissions for the Postdoctoral Fellowship. If you have previously applied and failed to reach the Second Stage of the competition, you are not eligible to re-apply. Previously unsuccessful applicants will only be able to submit another application if specifically invited to do so by the British Academy.
HOW TO APPLY

Prospective applicants are required to identify an academic mentor within the Faculty of Arts. Candidates should approach their mentor to discuss the project at the earliest opportunity. Applications will require approval from the proposed host department.

If you are interested in applying for this scheme and you meet the necessary eligibility criteria, please submit the following information by email to artsprojsupport@warwick.ac.uk by 5pm on Wednesday 13 August 2025 for the purpose of an internal selection round:  

A short description of their proposed project (maximum 2 A4 pages)
A copy of their CV (maximum 2 A4 pages)
The name of their proposed mentor at the University of Warwick. Please ensure that you have the agreement from the proposed mentor before applying.
The name of their proposed referee (please note that referees will not need to provide a statement for the internal selection round).
If their application is approved, candidates will be invited to submit their full proposal through Flexi-Grant, the British Academy’s application portal. They will be supported in this process by the University’s Research and Impact Services team. For more information about this and for any other enquiries about the scheme, please contact the above email address. The deadline for submissions to the British Academy is Wednesday 1 October 2025.

