V2.1 September 2024
JOB DESCRIPTION
Post: Programme Director
Responsible To: Head of Department (or Deputy Head of Department)
Summary of Post:
To teach, train and assess students in a variety of learning environments, ensuring a
high-quality learning experience.
To provide support to students to enable them to achieve their maximum potential.
To lead as appropriate on designated programme of learning.
A Programme Director holds all the responsibilities of a lecturer, with the added key
duty of overseeing the design, delivery, quality assurance, and evaluation of the
programme.
Specific Duties (Lecturer):
1. To prepare and deliver lessons on programme of learning as directed by the
departmental leadership team.
2. To prepare lesson plans and schemes of work in line with college guidelines
and prepare teaching materials in all formats to facilitate student learning.
3. To undertake the role of Personal Tutor for students, ensuring the adequate
provision of support and implementation of the College’s progress measures
and target setting schemes.
4. To prepare effective assessment and independent learning in line with College
policies, and provide regular feedback for students.
5. To monitor student attendance, follow up on student absence and complete
student withdrawals, transfers and destinations as appropriate.
6. To act as an internal assessor and verifier when required.
7. To provide a stimulating learning environment by making full use of the
resources available.
8. To invite regular feedback from students through questionnaires, group
discussions and course reviews to facilitate continuous improvement.
9. To organise external activities and visits as appropriate to ensure variety of
approach within the learning programme.
V2.1 September 2024
10. To support and, where appropriate, discipline students in line with College
procedures.
11. To contribute to the planning, setting and achievement of recruitment,
attendance, retention, achievement, progression and destination targets for
the programme of learning.
12. To participate in the recruitment of students through the marketing of courses,
attendance at open evenings and interviewing of students, including pre-entry
guidance, in liaison with the department leadership team.
13. To use information technology within the College to aid student learning.
14. Where appropriate to the level of study, ensure that English and maths are fully
integrated into all teaching and learning activities and Functional Skills English
and maths is taught as required.
15. Where appropriate to the level of study, ensure that opportunities to evidence
English and maths are sign posted for/with the students.
16. To contribute to the creation and updating of risk assessments of working areas
and practices and ensure these are implemented appropriately.
Specific Duties (Programme Director):
1. To plan a highly relevant and distinctive curriculum to meet the local/regional
skills requirements, and the needs of the student, in liaison with the
department leadership team to support outstanding progression for
students.
2. To lead and coordinate the delivery team so all students receive up-to-date
course information through pre course/programme events and start of
course/programme activities to facilitate student understanding of the
objectives of the course/programme, assessment schedules and
requirements in line with awarding body criteria, including the
course/programme handbook.
3. To provide the relevant course/programme updates, monitor
course/programme development and progress throughout the
course/programme duration, and monitor student progress, behaviour and
attitudes (including English and maths and work experience where
appropriate to level of study).
V2.1 September 2024
4. To work in partnership with the department leadership team to ensure close
liaison with the awarding body/validating institution, adhering to all
requirements including quality assurance.
5. To work in partnership with the department leadership team and engage in
the College’s self-assessment processes through rigorous and critical
evaluation of the quality of course/programme.
General Duties and Responsibilities:
1. To participate in the staff support & development scheme and to undertake
training based on individual and service needs.
2. To take a lead in creating or to promote a positive, inclusive ethos that
challenges discrimination and promotes equality and diversity.
3. To comply with legislative requirements and College policies and guidelines in
respect to health & safety and data protection.
4. To demonstrate positive personal and professional behaviour as specified in
the Staff Code of Conduct.
5. To undertake continuing professional development to support our culture of
continuous improvement.
6. To partake inquality assurance systems.
7. To meet minimum relevant occupational standards.
8. To keep up to date with the skills required to fulfil the role.
9. To undertake any other duties commensurate with grade as may be reasonably
requested.
10. You will be responsible for protecting staff and students from all preventable
harm as per safeguarding procedures.
You may be required to work on a weekend. You will be required to undertake class
contact time of 864 hours. Cover will be required in addition to these hours as per our
Teacher Work Load Policy.
The balance of hours will be ‘other duties’.
V2.1 September 2024
Contact Hours are defined under the definition of Qualification Hours and nonQualification Hours as outlined in the Funding Guidance from the Education and Skills
Funding Agency (ESFA). Namely:
• Teaching
• Work based assessment (where the student is present)
For Study Programmes (activity must be timetabled and registered) this may also
include:
• Teaching on informal certificates
• Supervision of students on work placements, work experience or other workrelated activities
• Supervisionof students on other activities that enable students togain relevant
experience
• Personal tutoring
• Supervision of students on volunteering, community and/or enrichment
activities
Other duties include:
• Administration and management of the student enrolment process
• Attendance at open days, parent evenings etc.
• Planning preparation, administration, marking and assessment
• Participation in target setting, review and self-assessment processes
• Production and evaluation of learning materials and programmes
• Contact and liaison with employers, community representatives and other
external agencies
• Interviewing students and prospective students
• Invigilation and supervision of examinations/tests
• Attendance at team meetings and other college events
• Training and continuous professional development activities
V2.1 September 2024
Please note:
This job description is a guide to the work you will initially be requiredto undertake. It
summarises the main aspects of the job but does not cover all the duties that the job
holder may have to perform. It may be changed from time to time to meet changing
circumstances.
It does not form part of your contract of employment and as your experience grows,
you will be expected to broaden your tasks, suggest improvements, solve problems
and enhance the effectiveness of the role.
This post is subject to an enhanced disclosure from the Disclosure and Barring Service.
EMPLOYEE SPECIFICATION
Application
Interview
Shortlisting
Weighting
Skills
1. Effective written and oral communication ✓ ✓ 6
2. Effective organisational skills and ability to work to deadline ✓ ✓ 6
3. Effective teamwork skills ✓ ✓ 4
4. Ability to motivate, encourage and support students ✓ ✓ 6
5. Familiarity with the use of IT ✓ ✓ 4
6. Actively contribute to the College’s Safeguarding practice,
procedures, culture and ethos ✓ ✓ 6
Experience
1. Up to date industry experience ✓ ✓ 6
2. Working knowledge of the requirements of Awarding Bodies and
academic cycle
✓ ✓ 6
3. Relevant experience of lecturing/training/teaching with successful
outcomes
✓ ✓ 6
4. 1 year’s teaching experience post teaching qualification
(teaching experience prior to qualification will be considered)
✓ ✓ 6
Education
1. Maths Level 2 (e.g. equivalent to GCSE grade C or above) ✓ 4
2. English Level 2 (e.g. equivalent to GCSE grade C or above) ✓ 4
3. IT Level 2 (e.g. equivalent to GCSEgrade C or above) ✓ 4
V2.1 September 2024
4. Appropriate professional qualification (minimum level 3) ✓ 6
5. Level 5 Diploma in Education and Training or PGCE ✓ ✓ 6
6. Assessor/Verifier Awards ✓ 4
Advice to candidates
This post is subject to an enhanced disclosure from the Disclosure and Barring Service.
In completing your application please draw attention to the extent to which you meet
each of the criteria in the person specification marked as being assessed at
application stage. Please use examples of where you have demonstrated the criteria
with as much detail as possible to assist in the shortlisting process.
The shortlisting weighting indicates which criteria are the most important to the
recruiting manager:
6 Minimum/critical - criteria which is essential for the role i.e. it would be
extremely difficult for the person to carry out the role without already having
these essential skills, experiences or qualifications.
4 Important - criteria that would be significant to the candidate being successful in
the role. These may be skills, experiences or qualifications that have substantial
meaning for the role but could be supported or taught on the job.
2 Other relevant - it would be great if the candidate had, but is not expected to be
shortlisted.
Failure to meet all of the minimum/critical criteria would not necessarily preclude
your application. Consideration will be given to experience and life skills. Continual
Professional Development will be supported and encouraged.
Please be aware should we have a large number of applications for any of our roles
we may complete the shortlisting of candidates based on the minimum/critical
criteria only.