AROWOLO, Sunday Olasunkanmi mICA, mACCE, mACSPN www.olaarowolo.com | Chatham, Kent, United Kingdom oa@olaarowolo.com, olasunkanmiarowolo@gmail.com| Mobile: +44 (0)7487 397751


PROFESSIONAL PROFILE

I am a resourceful and innovative media and communication scholar with a strong academic background, publication records, and experience in journalism practice, teaching, multimedia, and communication and media studies. I have a talent for leading degree courses in an arts university context and ensuring an inclusive, progressive, and high-quality student experience. I am active researcher who specialises in research methods and methodologies and have a keen interest in the future of academic practice and contemporary research methods.


CAREER OBJECTIVE:

I am currently seeking a new and challenging position that will allow me to leverage my extensive experience as a media and communication scholar. My aim is to contribute to success in the field of academia. I am particularly interested in leading and enhancing degree courses, with a focus on providing an inclusive and forward-thinking student experience. Additionally, I am committed to advancing the field through my expertise in research methods and methodologies and staying at the forefront of advancements in academic practice.


EDUCATION

2021 – 2025 PhD in Journalism, Centre for Journalism, University of Kent, England.

2019 Master of Science (M.Sc.), Communication Studies,

School of Communication, Lagos State University

2015 Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) (Hons), Mass Communication,

School of Communication, Lagos State University

WORK EXPERIENCE

November 2024 – Present Lecturer, Health and Social Care (Media/Core Comm. Aspect)

East Kent College, Ashford (Contracted through Dovetail & Slate)

Delivered high-quality, engaging instruction in Health and Social Care with a focus on media communication, integrating practical insights from my extensive experience in both the media and health sectors

Developed tailored lesson plans, incorporating real-world media production scenarios such as audio-visual storytelling, communication ethics, and media literacy

Assessed student progress, providing constructive feedback to enhance their understanding of key media and communication principles

Collaborated with colleagues to ensure that the media aspects of the programme aligned with industry standards, ensuring students gained skills applicable to both health and media sectors

Sept. 13, ‘22 – Present Assistant Lecturer, Centre for Journalism, University of Kent, Chatham, United Kingdom.

Responsibilities

Deliver teaching for the 15-credit Studying Journalism module (JOUR4050)

Teaching and Scholarship: Develop and deliver own teaching materials for seminar groups; Write handouts and other basic learning support materials; Set and mark assignments including assessing student progress and providing feedback to students; Reflect on practice and the development of own teaching and learning skills; Contribute to the planning of teaching programmes; Plan own day-to-day activity within the framework of the agreed programme.

Communication and teamwork: Collaborate with academic colleagues on course development and curriculum changes; attend and contribute to subject group meetings.

Pastoral care: Act as a mentor for students in the capacity of personal tutor. Use listening, interpersonal, and pastoral care skills to deal with sensitive issues concerning students and provide support; Refer students as appropriate to services providing further help.

Work environment: Required to be aware of the risks in the work environment and their potential impact on their own work and that of others.

Continuous professional development: possess sufficient breadth or depth of specialist knowledge in the discipline and be developing further skills in and knowledge of teaching.


Sept. 13, ‘22 – Present Assistant Lecturer (HPL), School of Social Policy, Sociology & Social Research, University of Kent, Canterbury, United Kingdom.

Responsibilities

Seminar Teaching, Preparation, Teaching Marking, Office Hour: 3x SOCI3370 seminars (autumn); 2x SOCI5750 seminars spring – Development of instructional materials and other fundamental learning aids for seminar groups and seminar delivery; evaluation of student progress and delivery of feedback to students; participation in the planning of educational programmes; Plan one's own daily activities within the parameters of the established programme; engage with academic colleagues to produce courses and make curricular

revisions; Attend subject group meetings and contribute; serve as a mentor for students as a personal tutor. Demonstrate continuing professional growth by acquiring additional teaching-related skills and information, as well as a suitable breadth or depth of subject-matter expertise. June ‘18 – May 2021 Assistant Lecturer, Department of Journalism, School of Communication, Lagos State University

Responsibilities

The development of appropriate teaching materials, the supervision of practical work, and the provision of advice on skills, methods, and techniques to aid in the transfer of knowledge are all activities that fall under the category of teaching, research, and student assessment.

June ‘17 - 2018 Graduate Assistant, Department of Journalism, School of Communication, Lagos State University, Ojo.

Responsibilities: Teaching, research, and student assessment activities, sometimes including lectures, are also undertaken. Appropriate teaching materials are also developed, theoretical and practical work is overseen, and advice on skills, methods, and techniques to aid knowledge transfer is given.


June ‘15 – Apr’2016 Graduate Assistant, Department of Languages, Linguistics, and Communication Studies, Osun State University, Ikire, Osun State.

Responsibilities: I assisted academic staff members in their work. holding a tutorial for students studying communication

PUBLICATIONS

Projects and Dissertations

Arowolo, S.O. (2019). Framing of President Muhammadu Buhari’s UK medical Vacation by Nigerian Newspapers, Lagos: PG School, Lagos State University.

Arowolo, S.O. (2015). Tabloidization in the Nigerian Press: A Quantitative Investigation into Changes in Nigerian Newspapers, 2003 – 2013. Lagos: LASU

Articles in peer reviewed journals Arowolo, O., Yusuf, K., Yahya, J., Lambo, O. and Oduolowu, D. (2023). World Bank Concept of Good Governance, Contemporary Nigerian Democracy, and the Place of the Media. East African Journal of Interdisciplinary Studies, 6(1), pp. 54-69. doi: 10.37284/eajis.6.1.1058. Suleiman, H., Adedeji, K., & Arowolo, S. O. (2020). Online Newspaper Coverage of the 8th National Assembly in Nigeria. Media and Communication Review (MCR), Vol. 2, Issue 2, pp. 57–83. Asomba, I.T. and Arowolo, S.O. (2018). Politics of Nigerian Newspaper Coverage of Ondo State 2012 Gubernatorial Election. Media and Communication Review (MCR), Vol. 3, Issue 1, pp. 85-109 Arowolo, S.O. (2015). Uses and Gratification theory and Tobacco Advertising necessity: An Exposé. International Journal of Broadcasting and Information Technology, 3(1). Lagos: Department of Broadcasting, School of Communication, Lagos State University.

Chapters in edited books Arowolo, O.S. & Animashaun, O. W. (2020). Text Language: A Revolution in Modern Communication. Book in Honour Professor Lai Oso at 60. Research and Book Publication Committee, School of Communication, Lagos State University, Lagos Nigeria. Oso, Lai, Adeniran, R. and Arowolo, S. O. (2019). The challenges and implications of health journalism practice in Nigeria newspapers. In A.M. Adeyanju, I. Jimoh & H.M. Suleiman (Eds.). Mass Media in Nigeria: Research, theories, and practice: A book in honour of Prof. Suleiman Salau. pp. 115-139. Jos: The National Institute, Kuru, Nigeria. Oso, L. and Arowolo, S. O. (2019). Commercialisation and tabloidisation: Journalism as infotainment. In L. Oso, R. Olatunji, O. Omojola & S. Oyero, Beyond fun: Media Entertainment, Politics and Development in Nigeria (pp. 189-205). Lagos: Malthouse Press Limited.


CURRENT RESEARCH

Doctoral thesis

Arowolo, O.S. “Poverty, Politics, and the Press: Uncovering the Complexities of Media Coverage on Nigeria’s Social Investment Programmes”

Ongoing /Forthcoming research:

Arowolo, O.S. “Reclaiming authenticity in Nigerian press: a study of a National Social Investment Programme”

Arowolo, S.O. The side-lined voice of the poor: slants and framing of poverty by the Nigerian print media.

Arowolo, S.O. ‘Voices of the oppressed’: an analysis of Nigeria Twittersphere conversations on Tradermoni poverty programme in Nigeria.

Arowolo, S.O. What’s up? News trading in the Nigerian press.

Arowolo, S.O. and Oso, L. ‘Bottom-up news’: do ordinary people matter in the news? – a study of Tradermoni poverty programme in Nigeria.

Arowolo, S.O. Echoing the frames: Eyes on Nigerian print media accounts of Lekki Toll Gate Massacre


CONFERENCE PAPERS

2018 Oso, Lai and Arowolo, S. Olasunkanmi, Hate Speech and Negotiating meaning. (2018): Association of Communication Scholars and Professionals of Nigeria (ACSPN), 5th ACSPN Annual Conference on 'Hate Speech, Fake News and Political Stability in Africa', September 5-6, 2018, Asaba, Nigeria.

2018 Arowolo, S. Olasunkanmi and Akano, M. M., New media, and attitude of students towards Online-Shopping: A case of Jumia.ng. (2018): Paper presented at Afe-Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD)-Media, Communication, Information Technology (MCIT) 2018 International Conference, September 19-22, 2018, Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State.

2018 Biobaku, M.O.; Arowolo, S.O; Odesanya, L.A; and Fatonji, S., Influence of 'The Lion of Bourdillon' Documentary on the Voting Intentions of Lagos Electorates in Nigeria's 2015 General Elections. (2018): 2018 Press Freedom Day Conference.

2018 Ogundoyin, S.O. and Arowolo, S.O., Media Advocacy Theory: A content analysis of media coverage of Nigerians' migration to Europe via Libya. (2018): 2018 ACCE National Conference.

2017 Oso, L., Jimoh, J., Arowolo, O.S., 3Ws: The social composition of news in selected Nigerian newspapers. (2017): Paper presented at Association of Communication Scholars and Professionals of Nigeria (ACSPN), Sept. 5th – 8th, 2017, Faculty of Communication, Bayero University, Kano (BUK).

2016 Suleiman, H.B., Arowolo, O.S. and Olona, K.A., Legislative Reporting in Nigeria: Online Newspaper 100 days Coverage of the 8th National Assembly Resolution. (2016): Sept 27th – 30th 2016. Ebenezer Soola Conference on Communication change management and sustainable development in the 21st century Conference Centre, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria.

SKILLS Technical (Click here creative CV)

§ Graphics Designs/ UI/Ux Designs

§ Video & Audio Editing

§ Creative and Academic writing

§ Digital & Traditional publishing

§ Research project management

§ Newspaper management

PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS

Member, International Communication Association (ICA)

Member, Public Communication of Science and Technology (PCST)

Member, Association of Communication Scholars, and Professionals of Nigeria (ACSPN)

Member, African Council for Communication Education (ACCE)


PROFESSIONAL TRAININGS

2013 United States Institute of Peace, Negotiation and Conflict Management

2014 Google Inc., Google Map Maker

REFERENCES

Available upon reque