TERTIARY EDUCATION TRUST FUND
INTRODUCTION
Following the successful completion of the processing of the research proposals submitted to NRF under
the 2024 Grant Cycle, culminating in the total award of close to ₦4.25 billion to support 158 Research
Projects, the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund) wishes to inform the Nigerian research community,
in particular, and the public in general, that the Federal Government has approved a total sum of
₦7.5billion for the NRF 2025 Grant Cycle. The process of accessing the 2025 NRF Grant starts with the
response to this Call-for-Submission-of-Concept-Notes by Principal Investigators of the proposed
Research Projects. This will be followed by the submission of Full Proposals by only those whose Concept
Notes have been evaluated and the Research Projects are considered fundable.
The thirty prioritized thematic areas of research are in three categories: Humanities &
Social Sciences; Science, Engineering, Technology & Innovation and Cross-Cutting
Lecturers in Public Tertiary Institutions in Nigeria are eligible.
Multidisciplinary and Interdisciplinary researches, comprising researchers from
various disciplines, are encouraged. The Principal Investigator (PI),
who must not be below the rank of a Senior Lecturer in a University or
Principal Lecturer in a Polytechnic or College of Education, will lead the
Research Team and be personally responsible and held accountable for
the conduct of the research. An added requirement is that the PI must be
institution-based, with the PI’s institution regarded as the Coordinating
Institution and guarantor of proper application of the funds for the
project.
The process of application is entirely on an online platform. The
Principal Investigator is expected to visit nrf.tetfund.gov.ng, where
he or she will be closely guided on the preparation and final
submission of the Concept Note as well as the Research Proposal.
Applicants are encouraged to acquaint themselves with the
Research Brief and the Guidelines for the application.
All the submitted Concept Notes will be evaluated by the National
Research Fund Screening and Monitoring Committee (NRFS&MC).
The PIs of the successful Concept Notes will be communicated to
proceed to the preparation of the Full Proposals, which will also be
processed online. The PI and, at least, a member of the Research
Team of a proposal that has been screened and adjudged fundable,
shall be invited to defend their proposal before the NRFS&MC.
Thereafter the successful proposals for the award of grant
will be presented to the Board of Trustees of TETFund for
approval and disbursement of funds.
DEADLINE FOR SUBMISSION OF CONCEPT NOTES
The Portal will be open for the submission of Concept Notes from 1st
August 2025. Deadline for submission of Concept Notes shall be on 28th
August 2025, Nigerian time. For enquiries, please contact the TETFund NRF
Secretariat using the following email addresses:salihugb@tetfund.gov.ng,
odoju@tetfund.gov.ng, abdullahih@tetfund.gov.ng,
zanginas@tetfund.gov.ng, ugwubs@tetfund.gov.ng
Signed:
Arc. Sonny S.T. Echono (FNIA, OON)
The Executive Secretary
Tertiary Education Trust Fund No. 6 Zambezi Crescent
Maitama, Abuja
www.tetfund.gov.ng
ELIGIBILITY
TETFund NATIONAL RESEARCH FUND (NRF) 2025 GRANT CYCLE
CALL FOR CONCEPT NOTES
Category 3 Cross-Cutting (CC)
Thematic Area 24 Blue Economy
Thematic Area 25 Clean and Affordable Energy
Thematic Area 26 Entrepreneurship and Wealth Creation
Thematic Area 27
Environment, Housing, Urban and
Regional Development
Thematic Area 28 Innovation and Technology in National
Defence Capabilities
Thematic Area 29 Resource Governance
Thematic Area 30 National System of Innovation
Category 1 Humanities and Social Sciences (HSS)
Thematic Area 1 Citizenship and National Integration
Thematic Area 2 Conflict, Defense and Security
Thematic Area 3 Economic Development and Globalization
Thematic Area 4 Education and Human Capital
Thematic Area 5 Gender, Equity and Social Inclusion
Thematic Area 6 Governance, Politics, Law and Ethics
Thematic Area 7 History, Culture and Identities
Thematic Area 8 Humanities, Social Sciences, Technology and
Business Interface
Thematic Area 9 Languages, Literatures and Media
Thematic Area 10 Population and Migration
Thematic Area 11 Social Development and Welfare
Thematic Area 12 Tourism, Sports and Recreation
Category 2 Science, Engineering, Technology and Innovation (SETI)
Thematic Area 13 Agriculture and Food Security
Thematic Area 14 Geosciences
Thematic Area 15 Health and Social Welfare
Thematic Area 16 Industry and Innovation
Thematic Area 17 Information Technology, Computing and
Telecommunications
Thematic Area 18 Power and Energy
Thematic Area 19 Science and Engineering
Thematic Area 20 Space Science and Technology
Thematic Area 21 Sustainable use of Natural Resources and
Terrestrial Ecosystems
Thematic Area 22 Transport and Infrastructure
Thematic Area 23 Water and Sanitation
THEMATIC AREAS FOR THE 2025 GRANT
APPLICATION
APPLICATION PROCEDURE