Job Specification
Research Fellowships - AI for Life
Artificial Intelligence
101253
Grade 8 £47,389 - £59,966 pa Grade 9 £61,759 - £75,917 pa
01-Dec-2025 23:30
University of Liverpool Research Fellowships: Revolutionising Research innovation
 
Shape the Future of AI Research. Become a University of Liverpool Research Fellow.
 
As we approach our 150th anniversary in 2031, the University of Liverpool is proud to launch the second cohort of our prestigious Research Fellowship programme, a cornerstone of our Strategy 2031 vision.
 
We are seeking Research Fellows with an original and compelling vision for harnessing the power of Artificial Intelligence for research. If you are ready to deliver world-class transformative research and grow into a knowledge leader of tomorrow, we want to hear from you.
 
We invite proposals that apply AI to one of our five Research Frontier focus areas:
 
For information on each of the below Frontiers, please visit: https://www.liverpool.ac.uk/research/fellowships/
 
This vacancy is for AI for Life only.  Please only apply for one Frontier. 
Host Departments listed on the e-recruitment site are purely indicative to aid internal handling of applications. Successful candidates will be placed in the most appropriate University Department for their discipline.
AI for Life
Infection Resilience
Materials Discovery
Particle Physics
Therapeutics Innovation
Whether you are from academia or a research-intensive industry setting, we welcome diverse career journeys with an understanding of the ethical, inclusive and societal dimensions of AI. A PhD in a relevant discipline is essential.
The University of Liverpool Research Fellowship Scheme will provide you with all the support you need to deliver impact that matters.
 
With our world-leading facilities and expertise we provide the platform for pioneering discoveries and partnerships. Our tenure-track fellowships will develop future research leaders in a vibrant, inclusive and collaborative environment.
 
Do you have the potential to shape the future of AI research and become an inclusive, responsible and collaborative leader? This is an exciting opportunity to develop your AI research portfolio in a world-class University, and progress to permanent tenure by the end of the Fellowship, subject to meeting performance requirements.
 
There are three separate documents which will form your application to our Research Fellowship Scheme:
 
- An application form
- A CV
- An outline Research Proposal (please use the template provided with the job description)
 
More information on our focus areas for each Frontier and application guidance at: https://www.liverpool.ac.uk/research/fellowships/
Click on the link below to view the full Job Description	
CV Guidance Research Fellowships
Outline Research Proposal
AI for Life - Job description